{"intents": [{"tag": 0, "txts": "washington  congressional republicans have a new fear when it comes to their health care lawsuit against the obama administration: they might win. the incoming trump administration could choose to no longer defend the executive branch against the suit which challenges the administrations authority to spend billions of dollars on health insurance subsidies for and americans handing house republicans a big victory on issues. but a sudden loss of the disputed subsidies could conceivably cause the health care program to implode leaving millions of people without access to health insurance before republicans have prepared a replacement. that could lead to chaos in the insurance market and spur a political backlash just as republicans gain full control of the government. to stave off that outcome republicans could find themselves in the awkward position of appropriating huge sums to temporarily prop up the obama health care law angering conservative voters who have been demanding an end to the law for years. in another twist donald j. trumps administration worried about preserving executive branch prerogatives could choose to fight its republican allies in the house on some central questions in the dispute. eager to avoid an ugly political pileup republicans on capitol hill and the trump transition team are gaming out how to handle the lawsuit which after the election has been put in limbo until at least late february by the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit. they are not yet ready to divulge their strategy. given that this pending litigation involves the obama administration and congress it would be inappropriate to comment said phillip j. blando a spokesman for the trump transition effort. upon taking office the trump administration will evaluate this case and all related aspects of the affordable care act.  in a potentially decision in 2015 judge rosemary m. collyer ruled that house republicans had the standing to sue the executive branch over a spending dispute and that the obama administration had been distributing the health insurance subsidies in violation of the constitution without approval from congress. the justice department confident that judge collyers decision would be reversed quickly appealed and the subsidies have remained in place during the appeal. in successfully seeking a temporary halt in the proceedings after mr. trump won house republicans last month told the court that they and the s transition team currently are discussing potential options for resolution of this matter to take effect after the s inauguration on jan. 20 2017.  the suspension of the case house lawyers said will provide the and his future administration time to consider whether to continue prosecuting or to otherwise resolve this appeal.  republican leadership officials in the house acknowledge the possibility of cascading effects if the payments which have totaled an estimated $13 billion are suddenly stopped. insurers that receive the subsidies in exchange for paying costs such as deductibles and for eligible consumers could race to drop coverage since they would be losing money. over all the loss of the subsidies could destabilize the entire program and cause a lack of confidence that leads other insurers to seek a quick exit as well. anticipating that the trump administration might not be inclined to mount a vigorous fight against the house republicans given the s dim view of the health care law a team of lawyers this month sought to intervene in the case on behalf of two participants in the health care program. in their request the lawyers predicted that a deal between house republicans and the new administration to dismiss or settle the case will produce devastating consequences for the individuals who receive these reductions as well as for the nations health insurance and health care systems generally.  no matter what happens house republicans say they want to prevail on two overarching concepts: the congressional power of the purse and the right of congress to sue the executive branch if it violates the constitution regarding that spending power. house republicans contend that congress never appropriated the money for the subsidies as required by the constitution. in the suit which was initially championed by john a. boehner the house speaker at the time and later in house committee reports republicans asserted that the administration desperate for the funding had required the treasury department to provide it despite widespread internal skepticism that the spending was proper. the white house said that the spending was a permanent part of the law passed in 2010 and that no annual appropriation was required  even though the administration initially sought one. just as important to house republicans judge collyer found that congress had the standing to sue the white house on this issue  a ruling that many legal experts said was flawed  and they want that precedent to be set to restore congressional leverage over the executive branch. but on spending power and standing the trump administration may come under pressure from advocates of presidential authority to fight the house no matter their shared views on health care since those precedents could have broad repercussions. it is a complicated set of dynamics illustrating how a quick legal victory for the house in the trump era might come with costs that republicans never anticipated when they took on the obama white house."}, {"tag": 1, "txts": "after the bullet shells get counted the blood dries and the votive candles burn out people peer down from windows and see crime scenes gone cold: a band of yellow police tape blowing in the breeze. the south bronx just across the harlem river from manhattan and once shorthand for urban dysfunction still suffers violence at levels long ago slashed in many other parts of new york city. and yet the citys efforts to fight it remain splintered underfunded and burdened by scandal. in the 40th precinct at the southern tip of the bronx as in other poor minority neighborhoods across the country people long hounded for infractions are crying out for more protection against grievous injury or death. by september four of every five shootings in the precinct this year were unsolved. out of the citys 77 precincts the 40th has the highest murder rate but the fewest detectives per violent crime reflecting disparities in staffing that hit hardest in some neighborhoods outside manhattan according to a new york times analysis of police department data. investigators in the precinct are saddled with twice the number of cases the department recommends even as their bosses are called to police headquarters to answer for the sharpest crime rise in the city this year. and across the bronx investigative resources are squeezed. it has the highest rate of the citys five boroughs but the thinnest detective staffing. nine of the 14 precinct detective squads for violent crime in the city are there. the boroughs robbery squad is smaller than manhattans even though the bronx has had 1 300 more cases this year. and its homicide squad has one detective for every four murders compared with one detective for roughly every two murders in upper manhattan and more than one detective per murder in lower manhattan. in lobbies and family apartments outside methadone clinics and art studios people take note of the inequity. they hear police commanders explain that they lack the resources to place a floodlight on a dangerous block or to post officers at a corner. they watch witnesses cower behind doors more fearful of a gunmans crew than confident in the police departments ability to protect them. so though people see a lot they rarely testify. and in the south bronx as in so many predominantly black and hispanic neighborhoods like it in the united states the contract between the police and the community is in tatters. some people have stories of crime reports that were ignored or 911 calls that went unanswered for hours. others tell of a 911 call for help ending in the callers arrest or of a minor charge leading to 12 hours in a fetid holding cell. this is the paradox of policing in the 40th precinct. its neighborhoods have historically been prime targets for aggressive tactics like that are designed to ward off disorder. but precinct detectives there have less time than anywhere else in the city to answer for the blood spilled in violent crimes. gola white who was beside her daughter when she was shot and killed in a playground this summer four years after her son was gunned down in the same housing project ticked off the public safety resources that she said were scant in bronx neighborhoods like hers: security cameras lights locks investigating police officers. here we have nothing she said. when it comes to  families she said the authorities dont really care as much. thats how i feel.  the times has been documenting the murders logged this year in the 40th precinct one of a handful of neighborhoods where deadly violence remains a problem in an era of crime in new york city. the homicides  14 in the precinct this year up from nine in 2015  strain detectives and when they go unsolved as half of them have this year some look to take the law into their own hands. from hundreds of conversations with grieving relatives and friends witnesses and police officers the social forces that flare into murder in a place like the 40th precinct become clearer: merciless gang codes mental illness drugs and long memories of feuds that simmered out of officers view. the reasons some murders will never be solved also emerge: paralyzing fear of retribution victims carrying secrets to their graves and relentless casework that forces detectives to move on in hopes that a break will come later. frustrations build on all sides. detectives phones rarely ring with tips and officers grow embittered with witnesses who will not cooperate. in the meantime a victims friends conduct their own investigations and talk of grabbing a stash gun from a wheel well or a mothers apartment when they find their suspect. in the chasm between the police and the community gangs and gun violence flourish. parents try to protect their families from drug crews threats and officers work to overcome the residue of years of mistrust and understaffing in communities where they still go racing from one 911 call to the next. the streets around st. marys park were the scene of two fatal shootings logged in the 40th precinct this year. both are unsolved. james fernandez heard talk of the murders through the door of his apartment on east 146th street in a the betances houses. he lived at the end of a long hallway strewn with hypodermic needles empty dope bags and discarded hennessy bottles. a young men who spoke of being in a subset of the bloods gang had made it their drug market slinging marijuana and cocaine to regulars flashing firearms and blowing smoke into the fernandez apartment. when mr. fernandez 40 asked the young men to move they answered by busting up his car. this kind of crime an anachronism in much of new york still rattles the 40th precinct even though murders there have fallen to 14 this year from 83 in 1991. it has more major felony crimes per resident than any other residential district in the city. it is also one of the poorest communities in the country and many young men find their way into underground markets. mr. fernandez was not one to shrink from the threats. when he was growing up on the lower east side he rode his bicycle around to the customers of the drug dealers he worked for and collected payments in a backpack. after leaving that life he got a tech maintenance job and three years ago moved into the betances houses with his wife and daughter now 11. he had two choices to get help with the drug crew: call the police for help and risk being labeled a snitch or call his old lower east side bosses for muscle and risk violence. he chose the police. again and again he walked into a local substation police service area 7 and asked for protection. his daughter was using an inhaler to relieve coughs from the marijuana smoke. mr. fernandez and his wife got terrible headaches. theres a lot of killers here and we are going to kill you a sergeants police report quoted a telling mr. fernandez in august 2015. a second report filed the same day said a warned him im going to shoot through your window.  mr. fernandez told the police both the teenagers names which appear in the reports and then went home. he said one of their friends had seen him walk into the substation and they tried to intimidate him out of filing another report. three days later the same propped his bike on their door then said if i was to open the door and say something they would body slam me mr. fernandezs wife maria fernandez wrote on slips of paper she used to document the hallway ruckus and the inadequate police response. the boys made comments about how easy a target she was and about how they would have to slap her if she opened the door while they made a drug sale and they threatened to beat the fernandez family because they are the ones snitching her notes say. but another complaint at the substation 10 days after the first brought no relief. a week later feeling desperate ms. fernandez tried calling: first to the substation at 8:50 p. m. when one of the boys blew weed smoke at her door and made a threat to attack her and then to 911 at 10:36 p. m. the police never came she wrote in her notes. she tried the 40th precinct station house next but officers at the desk left her standing in the public waiting area for a she said making her fear being seen again. officers put her in worse danger some months later she said when they came to her door and announced in front of the teenagers that they were there on a complaint about drug activity. mr. fernandez started doing the work that he said the police had failed to do. he wired a camera into his peephole to record the drugs and guns. the footage hark back to the new york of the 1980s still very much present to some of the precincts residents. around 6:30 each morning sgt. michael j. lopuzzo walks through the tall wooden doors of the 40th precinct station house. the cases that land on his metal desk  dead bodies with no known cause strip club brawls shooting victims hobbling into the hospital themselves  bring resistance at every turn reminding him of an earlier era in the citys campaign. i havent got one single phone call thats putting me in the right direction here said sergeant lopuzzo the head of the precincts detective squad one day this summer as he worked on an answer to an email inquiry from a murder victims aunt about why the killer had not been caught. and people just dont understand that.  often it is detectives who most feel the effects of people turning on the police. witnesses shout them away from their doors just so neighbors know they refuse to talk. of the 184 people who were shot and wounded in the bronx through early september more than a third  66 victims  refused to cooperate. over the same period in the 40th precinct squad detectives closed three of 17 nonfatal shootings and 72 of 343 robbery cases. part of the resistance stems from preventive policing tactics like that were a hallmark of the style under former mayor michael r. bloomberg and his police commissioner raymond w. kelly. near the height of the strategy in 2012 the 40th precinct had the stops in the city the stops in which officers used force and the most frisks. of 18 276 stops that year 15 521 were of people who had done nothing criminal. the precinct was also one of the areas that the department flooded with its newest officers. at roll calls they were pressured to generate numbers: write tickets and make arrests. they had no choice but to give a summons to a young man playing in a park after dark even if the officers had done the same growing up in the same neighborhood. i need to bring something in today to justify my existence officer argenis rosado who joined the precinct in 2010 said in an interview at the station house. so now youre in a small area and day after day youre hammering the same community. of course that communitys eventually going to turn on you.  the pressure warped the way officers and residents saw each other. rookies had to ignore why someone might be drinking outside or sitting on a stoop. some of the cops that came out at that time probably viewed the community differently too said hector espada a veteran of the precinct. not because they wanted to but because they had to. because some way or somehow you cant give someone a $115 summons and feel like you guys could still have a civil conversation after that.  morale wilted in the aged station house on alexander avenue in mott haven. officers felt pressure to downgrade crime complaints to make them appear less serious. several said in interviews that they had overlooked crime reports from immigrants because they were seen as unlikely to complain and watched supervisors badger victims into repeating their stories in hopes that they would drop their complaints. the practice of downgrading complaints resulted in the disciplining of 19 officers in the precinct last year one in a string of scandals that has left officers there feeling overscrutinized for problems that also existed elsewhere. four commanders in the precinct were sent packing in five years one of them after officers were found to be ticket fixing or forgiving parking tickets for friends and another after he was recorded giving guidance on whom to stop and frisk: black boys and men ages 14 to 21. some officers fled to other commands. others became reluctant to take assignments in proactive policing units like that put them in situations on the street. whenever i walked through the doors of the precinct to me it seemed like a black cloud said russell lewis a of the 40th. it was like a heaviness. when you walked in all you wanted to do was do your 8 hours 35 minutes and go home because you didnt want to get caught up in anything.  the precinct covers only about two square miles but the more than a dozen housing projects there mean that it overflows with people. methadone clinics draw addicts from around the city. lofts on the southern edge of the precinct presage a wave of gentrification. even as the police department has hired 1 300 more officers for neighborhood policing and counterterrorism officers in the 40th precinct said they could still rush to 25 911 calls during a shift  a number unchanged from what the new police commissioner james p. oneill said he was handling in a similar south bronx precinct 15 years ago. several dozen calls at a time can be waiting for a response. residents know that if you want the police for a domestic problem it helps to hint that there is a weapon. last year the precinct drew the number of civilian complaints for officer misconduct in the city and the most lawsuits stemming from police actions. the precinct is trying to improve morale under a new commanding officer deputy inspector brian hennessy. a cadre of what the department calls neighborhood coordination officers has been on patrol since last january part of a citywide effort under mr. oneill and mayor bill de blasio to bring back the beat cop unencumbered by chasing every last 911 call who can listen to peoples concerns and help with investigations. the precinct has made among the most gun arrests in the city and officers said they now had more discretion to resolve encounters without a summons or an arrest. at one corner near a school on courtlandt avenue and east 151st street that has long spawned complaints about gunfire and fights inspector hennessy and some of his officers painted over graffiti and swept up drug paraphernalia this summer. people said it was the first answer to their complaints in years. but the inspector acknowledged that the residue of policing lingers. that perception really sticks he said. the workload in the 40th precinct is startling and reveals a gap in how detective squads are equipped to answer violent crime in manhattan compared with the bronx brooklyn and queens. three of the precincts 16 detectives are carrying more than 400 cases each this year and many others have loads in the high 300s even though the department advises 150 in violent precincts. when they are assigned a homicide they typically have four days to investigate before dealing with other cases. quieter precincts can give detectives a month with little distraction to investigate a murder. detectives in the 40th precinct have each handled an average of 79 violent felonies this year through  murders rapes felony assaults and robberies. by contrast a detective in the precinct on the southern end of staten island carries nine such cases a detective in the precinct patrolling union square and gramercy park handles 16 and a detective in the precinct for most of washington heights handles 32 the citywide median. last year the 40th was the for violent crime with 65 cases per detective. in the bronx as a whole a precinct detective has carried an average of 58 violent felonies this year compared with 27 in manhattan 37 in brooklyn 38 in queens and 25 on staten island. rape cases and robbery patterns are later sent to more specialized units but precinct detectives do extensive initial work to interview victims write reports and process evidence. precincts in much of manhattan which are whiter and wealthier than the south bronx often have more property felonies like stolen laptops or credit cards and the police say those can be complex. but even accounting for those crimes the 40th precinct has some of the heaviest caseloads of overall crime per detective in the city. michael palladino the head of the detectives endowment association and a former bronx officer said staffing disparities affected the departments efforts to build trust in communities like the south bronx. witnesses make a calculation he said: if i cooperate with the detectives theres so much work theres so few of them there they wont even get the chance to protect me or theyll be there too late when the retaliation comes.  sergeant lopuzzo who turned down a more prestigious post to stay in the 40th precinct said that his squad worked tirelessly to handle cases with the people he had and that while every squad wanted more detectives staffing needs for counterterrorism units and task forces had created new deployment challenges across the department. we fight with the army we have not the army we wish we had he said. details of how the police department assigns its 36 000 officers are closely held and constantly in flux and the public has minimal information on how personnel are allocated. presented with the timess analysis of confidential staffing data the departments chief of detectives robert k. boyce vowed to send more detectives to the 40th precinct and said the department would reassess its deployment more broadly in troubled precincts. he said a recent decision to bring gang narcotics and vice detectives under his command made it easier to shift personnel. chief boyce said the burdens on detectives went beyond felony crimes to include and cases. and he noted the support that precinct squads got from centralized units focusing on robberies gangs or grand larcenies for example. major crime keeps pounding the 40th precinct at rates that in 2015 were only a tenth of a percent lower than in 2001 even as citywide crime dropped by more than a third over the same period. but the precincts detective squad shrank by about eight investigators during those years according to staffing data obtained from the city council through a freedom of information law request. the squad covering union square and gramercy park where crime dropped by a third over that period grew by about 11 investigators. (the 40th precinct was given an additional detective and four investigators this summer when it was already missing three detectives for illness or other reasons.) retired detectives are skeptical that community relations alone can drive down crime in the citys last  the busiest precincts. rather they say the police department should be dedicating more resources to providing the same sort of robust investigative response that seems standard in manhattan. any crime in manhattan has to be solved said howard landesberg who was a 40th precinct detective in the late 1980s. the outer boroughs are like forgotten.  retired detectives said that understaffing made it harder to solve crimes in the bronx brooklyn and queens where the higher prevalence of gang and drug killings already saddled investigators with cases in which people were not inclined to cooperate. through detectives had closed 67 percent of homicides in manhattan and 76 percent of those in staten island this year compared with 54 percent of those in the bronx 42 percent of those in queens and 31 percent of those in brooklyn. of last years homicides detectives cleared 71 percent in manhattan 63 percent in the bronx 62 percent in queens 57 percent in staten island and 31 percent in brooklyn. its the culture of the police department that they worry about manhattan said joseph l. giacalone a former sergeant in the bronx cold case squad in part because thats where the money is.  he added: when de blasio came in he talked about the tale of two cities. and then hes done the complete opposite of what he said. its just business as usual.  the bronxs struggles extend into prosecutions. in each of the last five years prosecutors in the bronx have declined to prosecute violent felony cases more than anywhere else in the city. and the rate of conviction in the bronx is routinely the lowest in the city as well but has ticked up this year to surpass brooklyns rate through november as bronx prosecutors work to streamline cases. some cases have become even more difficult to win because of the problem in the 40th precinct which has allowed defense lawyers to attack the credibility of officers who were implicated said patrice oshaughnessy a spokeswoman for the bronx district attorneys office. the district attorney darcel d. clark elected in 2015 said in a statement i was a judge here in the bronx and i heard from jurors that they cant be impartial because they dont trust the police.  against that tide of mistrust sergeant lopuzzos detectives work 36 hours straight on some fresh cases. they buy chinese takeout with their own money for a murder suspect. they carry surveillance videos home in hopes that their personal computers may enhance them better than a squad computer. they buy an urn for a homeless mother who has her murdered sons ashes in a box. in the months after a killing they can seem like the only people in this glittering city who are paying attention to the 40th precincts homicide victims. newly fatherless children go back to school without a therapists help. victims families wander confused through a courthouse and nearly miss an appearance. newspapers largely ignore killings of people with criminal pasts pushing them down the priority lists of the chiefs at police headquarters. in a stuffy squad room the detectives of the 40th precinct grapple with an inheritance of government neglect. they meet mothers who believe their sons might never have been murdered had a city guidance counselor listened to pleas to help them stay enrolled or had a city housing worker fixed the locks or lights on a building. and the detectives work alongside a vicious system on the streets for punishing police cooperators. young men scan court paperwork in prison looking for the names of people who turned on them. one murder victim in the precinct this year was cast out of his crew after he avoided being arrested with them in a gang takedown some believed he was cooperating. a longtime 40th precinct detective jeff meenagh said a witness in a homicide case was going to testify until he went back to his neighborhood and was told that anyone who testified would get what you deserve.  the allies sergeant lopuzzo makes are friendly only for so long. he helped clear a womans son of a robbery charge by locating surveillance video that proved he was not the robber. the mother started calling with tips under a code name  about a gun under a car for example. but she always refused to testify. and she cut ties this year after sergeant lopuzzo arrested her son in the stabbing of two people and her in a shooting. new york city owns east 146th street and the buildings on each side. but james fernandez in the betances houses said the reality on the ground was different: the drug boss ran the block. by october mr. fernandez was increasingly afraid  and fed up. mr. fernandez and his wife went so far as to give officers keys to the building door so they could get in whenever they wanted showed them the videos and offered them access to his camera so they could see what was happening in the hallway. a couple of officers said they needed a supervisors permission to do more. others answered that the young men were only making threats. officers occasionally stopped outside their building causing the young men to scatter but did not come inside mr. fernandez said. the menacing worsened. mr. fernandezs daughter was harassed as she arrived home from school. she grew more and more distressed and her parents had her start seeing a therapist. mr. fernandez made several complaints at the office of the borough president ruben diaz jr. and visited a victims advocate in the district attorneys office. on oct. 20 2015 he sent an online note to the police commissioners office. we went to all proper channels for help the note said. both precincts failed us except 2 officers who helped us but their hands are tied. no one else to turn to. i have months of video of multiple crimes taking place and we are in extreme danger.  40th and psa 7 wont do anything he wrote referring to the local substation. please we need to speak to some one with authority.  the local substation commander deputy inspector jerry osullivan and the bronx narcotics unit were alerted to the complaints. but mr. fernandez said he never heard from them. so he relied on his own street instincts to protect his family. he made pleas to a man he thought was employing the dealers in the hallway. the activity quieted briefly but it returned after the young men rented a room in a womans apartment upstairs. mr. fernandez approached a different man who he learned was the boss of the operation. the man agreed to ask the dealers to calm down. he even hired a drug customer to sweep the hallway mr. fernandez said. but two weeks later the dealing and the harassment resumed. so he went to his old lower east side bosses who hired men to trail his wife and daughter on their way out of the building and make sure they made it safely to school. at other times they sat outside the betances houses. he also bought two bulletproof vests for about $700 each. he could not find one small enough for his daughter. i have no faith in the city of new york i have no faith in the police i have no faith in the politicians mr. fernandez said. the only thing i know for sure: god if were in a situation again i will be left to defend my family.  paying such close attention to what was happening in the hallway mr. fernandez said he learned some details about two recent homicides that the 40th precinct was investigating. but because his calls for help were going nowhere he said he decided not to put himself in greater risk by talking: he would not tell the police what he had learned. im bending over backward and nobodys not even doing anything he said. why am i going to help you if you aint going to help me? by last january a new neighborhood coordination officer was working with residents of the betances houses and ended up with the most arrests in his housing command inspector osullivan said. chief boyce said that the silos in which gang and narcotics detectives used to work made responding to complaints more difficult but that the recent restructuring would remove those obstacles. no one should live like mr. fernandez lived with people dealing drugs outside of his apartment he said. mr. fernandezs complaints did not spur any arrests but two men from the hallway were caught separately this year in shootings. one of them whom mr. fernandez named in a police report was charged this summer with hitting an officer with a metal folding chair and firing three gunshots into a crowd court papers say. he is being held on rikers island on an attempted murder charge. that was too late for mr. fernandez. by may he had moved his family away."}, {"tag": 2, "txts": "when walt disneys bambi opened in 1942 critics praised its spare haunting visual style vastly different from anything disney had done before. but what they did not know was that the films striking appearance had been created by a chinese immigrant artist who took as his inspiration the landscape paintings of the song dynasty. the extent of his contribution to bambi which remains a mark for film animation would not be widely known for decades. like the films title character the artist tyrus wong weathered irrevocable separation from his mother  and in the hope of making a life in america incarceration isolation and rigorous interrogation  all when he was still a child. in the years that followed he endured poverty discrimination and chronic lack of recognition not only for his work at disney but also for his fine art before finding acclaim in his 90s. mr. wong died on friday at 106. a hollywood studio artist painter printmaker calligrapher illustrator and in later years maker of fantastical kites he was one of the most celebrated artists of the 20th century. but because of the marginalization to which were long subject he passed much of his career unknown to the general public. artistic recognition when mr. wong did find it was all the more noteworthy for the fact that among chinese immigrant men of his generation professional prospects were largely limited to menial jobs like houseboy and laundryman. trained as a painter mr. wong was a leading figure in the modernist movement that flourished in california between the first and second world wars. in 1932 and again in 1934 his work was included in group shows at the art institute of chicago that also featured picasso matisse and paul klee. as a staff artist for hollywood studios from the 1930s to the 1960s he drew storyboards and made vibrant paintings as detailed as any architectural illustrations that helped the director envision each scene before it was shot. over the years his work informed the look of animated pictures for disney and films for warner brothers and other studios among them the sands of iwo jima (1949) rebel without a cause (1955) and the wild bunch (1969). but of the dozens of films on which he worked it was for bambi that mr. wong was  belatedly  most renowned. he was truly involved with every phase of production john canemaker an animator and a historian of animation at new york university said in an interview for this obituary in march. he created an art direction that had really never been seen before in animation.  in 2013 and 2014 mr. wong was the subject of water to paper paint to sky a major retrospective at the disney family museum in san francisco. from the museums windows which overlook san francisco bay he could contemplate angel island where more than nine decades earlier as a lone he had sought to gain admission to a country that adamantly did not want him. wong gen yeo (the name is sometimes romanized wong gaing yoo) was born on oct. 25 1910 in a farming village in guangdong province. as a young child he already exhibited a love of drawing and was encouraged by his father. in 1920 seeking better economic prospects gen yeo and his father embarked for the united states leaving his mother and sister behind. gen yeo would never see his mother again. they were obliged to travel under false identities  a state of affairs known among chinese immigrants as being a paper son  in the hope of circumventing the chinese exclusion act of 1882. signed into law by president chester a. arthur the act which drastically curtailed the number of chinese people allowed to enter the country was among the earliest united states laws to impose severe restrictions on immigration. but in 1906 an unforeseen loophole opened in the form of the san francisco earthquake and fire. because a huge number of municipal documents including birth and immigration records were destroyed many newly arrived chinese capitalized on the loss maintaining that they had been born in san francisco before the fire. as united states citizens they were entitled to bring over their relatives  or in the case of gen yeo and his father paper sons posing as relatives. attuned to the deception united states immigration officials put chinese arrivals through a formidable inquisition to ensure they were who they claimed to be. the questions came like gunfire: in which direction does your village face? how many windows are in your house? where in the house is the rice bin? how wide is your well? how deep? are there trees in your village? are there lakes? what shops can you name? the sponsoring relative was interrogated separately and the answers had to match. for the new arrival a major mistake or a series of smaller ones could mean deportation. to stand a chance of passing aspirants memorized rigorous dossiers known as coaching papers. the ensuing interrogation was hard enough for adults. gen yeo would undergo it alone. on dec. 30 1920 after a month at sea the wongs landed at angel island immigration station. the elder mr. wong was traveling as a merchant named look get his son as look tai yow. angel island is considered to be the ellis island of the west coast lisa see the author of on gold mountain (1995) a nonfiction chronicle of her family said in an interview in 2016. however she continued: the goal was really very different than ellis island which was supposed to be so welcoming. angel island opened very specifically to keep the chinese out.  because mr. wongs father had previously lived in the united states as look get he was able to clear immigration quickly. but as a new arrival gen yeo was detained on the island for nearly a month the only child among the immigrants being held there. i was scared half to death i just cried mr. wong recalled in tyrus an documentary directed by pamela tom which premiered in 2015. every day is just miserable  miserable. i hated that place.  on jan. 27 1921 in the presence of an interpreter and a stenographer young gen yeo posing as look tai yow was interrogated by three inspectors. his father had already been questioned. gen yeo was well prepared and answered without error. in sacramento where he joined his father a schoolteacher americanized tai yow to tyrus and he was known as tyrus wong ever after. soon afterward father and son were separated once more when the elder mr. wong moved to los angeles to seek work. for reasons that have been lost to time he could not take his son. tyrus lived on his own in a sacramento boardinghouse while attending elementary school. two years later  possibly more  tyrus traveled to los angeles to join his father who had found work in a gambling den. they lived in a boardinghouse sandwiched between a butcher shop and a brothel. after school tyrus worked as a houseboy for two pasadena families earning 50 cents a day. his first art teacher was his father who trained him nightly in calligraphy by having him dip a brush in water and trace ghostly characters on newspaper: they could not afford ink or drawing paper. when tyrus was in junior high a teacher noting his drawing talent arranged a summer scholarship to the otis art institute in los angeles. by his own account an indifferent student in public school tyrus found his calling at the institute now the otis college of art and design. when his scholarship ended he declined to return to junior high. his father scraped together the $90 tuition  a small fortune  to let him stay on as otiss youngest student. he studied there for at least five years simultaneously working as the school janitor before graduating in the 1930s. not long afterward his father died leaving young mr. wong entirely on his own. from 1936 to 1938 mr. wong was an artist for the works progress administration creating paintings for libraries and other public spaces. with friends including the artist benji okubo he founded the oriental artists group of los angeles which organized exhibitions of members work  an level of exposure for asian artists at the time. mr. wong newly married and needing steady work joined disney in 1938 as an  creating the thousands of intermediate drawings that bring animated sequences to life. asians were then a novelty at hollywood studios and mr. wong was made keenly aware of the fact first at disney and later at warner brothers. one flung a racial epithet at him. another assumed on sight that he worked in the company cafeteria. then there was the affront of the s job itself: painstaking repetitive and for mr. wong quickly it is the work of animation  a terrible use of his talents as a landscape artist and a painter mr. canemaker said. a reprieve came in the late 1930s when mr. wong learned that disney was adapting bambi a life in the woods the 1923 novel by the austrian writer felix salten about a fawn whose mother is killed by a hunter. in trying to animate the book disney had reached an impasse. the studio had enjoyed great success in 1937 with its animated film snow white and the seven dwarfs a baroque production in which every detail of the backgrounds  every petal on every flower every leaf on every tree  was meticulously represented. in an attempt to use a similar style for bambi it found that the ornate backgrounds camouflaged the deer and other forest creatures on which the narrative centered. mr. wong spied his chance. i said gee this is all outdoor scenery he recalled in a video interview years afterward adding: i said gee im a landscape painter!  invoking the exquisite landscape paintings of the song dynasty (a. d. 960  1279) he rendered in watercolors and pastels a series of nature scenes that were moody lyrical and atmospheric  at once lush and spare  with backgrounds subtly suggested by a stroke or two of the brush. walt disney went crazy over them said mr. canemaker who wrote about mr. wong in his book before the animation begins: the art and lives of disney inspirational sketch artists (1996). he said i love this indefinite quality the mysterious quality of the forest.  mr. wong was unofficially promoted to the rank of inspirational sketch artist. but he was more than that mr. canemaker explained. he was the designer he was the person they went to when they had questions about the color about how to lay something out. he even influenced the music and the special effects: just by the look of the drawings he inspired people.  mr. wong spent two years painting the illustrations that would inform every aspect of bambi.  throughout the finished film  lent a brooding quality by its stark landscapes misty desaturated palette and figures often seen in silhouette  his influence is unmistakable. but in 1941 in the wake of a bitter employees strike that year disney fired mr. wong. though he had chosen not to strike  he felt the studio had been good to him mr. canemaker said  he was let go amid the lingering climate of resentments. on bambi mr. wongs name appears quite far down in the credits as a mere background artist. mr. wong joined warner brothers in 1942 working there  and lent out on occasion to other studios  until his retirement in 1968. the indignities he endured were not confined to the studios. trying to buy a house he and his wife the former ruth kim were told that each property they inquired about had just been sold. then in a month youd go back there and the sign was still there mr. wong recalled in tyrus.  after the japanese attack on pearl harbor in december 1941 mr. wong like many took to wearing a lapel button proclaiming his heritage lest an angry american beat him up on the street. the war permanently dispersed the fledgling oriental artists group. mr. wongs friend mr. okubo was sent with tens of thousands of other to an internment camp. if world war ii hadnt happened when it did i think these artists even the artists would have more of a name than they do today ms. see said. and thats because this little movement that had just barely started was split apart by the war.  mr. wong who became a united states citizen in 1946 also designed christmas cards for hallmark and painted elegant designs on dinnerware now sought after by collectors. a longtime resident of sunland calif. he became in retirement a renowned kitemaker designing building and hand coloring astonishing airworthy creations  butterflies swallows whole flocks of owls centipedes more than 100 feet long  that streaked the southern california sky like paint on blue canvas. during the last 15 years of ruth wongs life when she was ill with dementia mr. wong forsook his work to care for her. after her death in 1995 he slowly began making art again. in 2001 in formal recognition of his influence on bambi mr. wong was named a disney legend. the honor  whose previous recipients include fred macmurray julie andrews and annette funicello  is bestowed by the walt disney company for outstanding contributions. in 2003 a retrospective of his work curated in part by ms. see was the inaugural exhibition at the chinese american museum in los angeles. the disney family museums retrospective water to paper paint to sky traveled in 2015 to the museum of chinese in america in lower manhattan. mr. wongs death at his home in sunland was confirmed by the filmmaker ms. tom. his survivors include three daughters kay fong wong and kim wong and two grandchildren. when his daughters were small mr. wong encouraged them to make art as his father had encouraged him. yet he would not let them have coloring books. the reason was simple: he did not want his children constrained he said by lines laid down by others."}, {"tag": 3, "txts": "death may be the great equalizer but it isnt necessarily evenhanded. of all the fields of endeavor that suffered mortal losses in 2016  consider muhammad ali and arnold palmer in sports and the hollywood deaths of carrie fisher and debbie reynolds  the pop music world had hands down the bleakest year. start with david bowie whose stage persona  androgynous glam rocker dance pop star electronic experimentalist  was as as his music. the year was only days old when the news came that he had died of cancer at 69. he had hinted that his time was short in the lyrics of his final album released just two days before his death but he had otherwise gone to great lengths to hide his illness from the public a wish for privacy that ensured that his death would appear to have come out of the blue. then came another shock about three months later when prince accidentally overdosed on a painkiller and collapsed in an elevator at his sprawling home studio near minneapolis. death came to him at 57 and by all indications no one including prince rogers nelson had seen it coming. as energetic onstage as ever holding to an otherwise healthy regimen he had successfully defied age into his sixth decade so why not death too? leonard cohen on the other hand in his 83rd year undoubtedly did see it coming just over his shoulder but he went on his  i hesitate to say merry  way ever the wise troubadour playing to sellout crowds and shrugging at the inevitable knowing that the dark would finally overtake him but saying essentially until then heres another song.  it was as if 2016 hadnt delivered enough jolts to the system when it closed out the year with yet another death. george michael the 1980s sensation whose aura had dimmed in later years was 53 when he went to bed and never woke up on christmas. pop music figures fell all year many of their voices still embedded in the nicked vinyl grooves of old records that a lot of people cant bear to throw out. the roster included paul kantner of jefferson airplane keith emerson and greg lake of emerson lake and palmer glenn frey of the eagles and maurice white of earth wind fire. leon russell the piano pounder with a delta blues wail and a mountain mans mass of hair died. so did merle haggard rugged country poet of the common man and the outlaw. he was joined by the bluegrass legend ralph stanley and the guitar virtuoso who was practically glued to elviss swiveling hips in the early days: scotty moore. and then there was george martin whose genius had such a creative influence on the sounds of john paul george and ringo (and by extension on the entire rock era) that he was hailed as the fifth beatle. if the music stars could fill arenas so could idols of another stripe: the mighty athletes who left the scene. no figure among them was as towering as ali. some called him the greatest sports figure of the 20th century the boxer who combined power grace and brains in a way the ring had never seen. but he was more than a great athlete. matters of war race and religion coursed through his life in a publicly turbulent way. some people hated him when he refused to be drafted during the vietnam war a decision that cost him his heavyweight title. but more people admired him even loved him for his principled stands his high spirits his lightning mind his winking and yes his rhyming motormouth. until illness closed in little could contain him certainly not mere ropes around a ring. palmer too was transformational golfs first media star. the gentlemans game was never quite the same after he began gathering an army on the rolling greenswards and leading a charge his shirt coming untucked a cigarette dangling from his lips his club just that a weapon as he pressed the attack. an entire generation of postwar guys took up the game because of arnie and not a few women did too. he was athletically blessed magnetically cool telegenically handsome  but he was somehow one of them too. the same was said of gordie howe mr. hockey a son of the saskatchewan prairie who tore up the national hockey league hung up his skates at 52 and died at 88 and of ralph branca a trolley car conductors son who was a living reminder that one crushing mistake  his the fastball to bobby thomson that decided the 1951 national league pennant  can sometimes never be lived down. pat summitt the coach who elevated womens basketball led her tennessee teams to eight championships and won more games than any other college coach could not defeat alzheimers disease dying at 64. and within months the national basketball association lost two giants from different eras. clyde lovelette an olympic college and n. b. a. champion who transformed the game as one of its first truly big men was 86 his hardwood heir nate thurmond a defensive stalwart who battled russell wilt and kareem in the paint in a hall of fame career was 74. even older in the baseball ranks was monte irvin. when he died at 96 there were few people still around who could remember watching him play particularly in his prime in the 1940s when he was a star on the negro circuit but barred from the major leagues. he made the hall of fame anyway as a new york giant and became major league baseballs first black executive but when he died fans pondered again the question that has hung over many an athletic career shackled by discrimination: what if? a different question in an entirely different sphere arose after the stunning news that justice antonin scalia had died on a hunting trip in texas: what now? in the thick of one of the most consequential supreme court careers of modern times he left a void in conservative jurisprudence and more urgently a vacancy on the bench that has yet to be filled raising still more questions about what may await the country. other exits from the public stage returned us to the past. nancy reagans death evoked the 1980s white house where glamour and west coast conservatism took up residence on the banks of the potomac. john glenns had us thinking again about a burst of national pride soaring into outer space. the deaths of tom hayden and daniel berrigan avatars of defiance harked back to the student rebellions of the 1960s and the vietnam wars roiling home front. phyllis schlaflys obituaries were windows on the roots of the right wings ascension in american politics. the death of janet reno the first woman to serve as attorney general recalled the clinton years all eight of them from the firestorm at waco tex. to the international tug of war over a cuban boy named elin gonzlez to the bitter senate battle over impeachment. on other shores fidel castros death at 90 summoned memories of cuban revolution nuclear brinkmanship and enduring enmity between a strongman and the superpower only 90 miles away. the name of boutros the egyptian diplomat who led the united nations led to replayed nightmares of genocide in rwanda and bosnia. the death of shimon peres removed a last link to the very founding of israel and conjured decades of growing military power and fitful strivings for peace. and that of elie wiesel in new york after his tireless struggle to compel the world never to forget made us confront once again the gas chambers of auschwitz. if writers too are even in fiction then the world is poorer without the literary voices of harper lee umberto eco pat conroy jim harrison anita brookner alvin toffler gloria naylor and william trevor not to mention the playwrights peter shaffer dario fo and edward albee  all dead in 2016. but just as treasured were those who spun for our viewing pleasure  none more lustily than ms. fisher the princess leia of the star wars tales. just a day later capping a year of startling deaths ms. reynolds a singing and acting leading lady of an earlier era died at 84 in the throes of a mothers grief. devotees of the harry potter movies were saddened by the death of alan rickman who played the deliciously dour professor severus snape in that blockbuster franchise but whose career on both stage and screen was far richer than many of snapes younger fans may have known. zsa zsa gabors celebrity by contrast outshone a modest acting career. gene wilder and garry shandling died in the same year both having perfected a brand of hilariously neurotic comedy fit for a culture. and this time abe vigoda of the godfather movies and barney miller actually did die after having not actually done so years ago when wildly uninformed people spread the word that he had. on the other side of the camera were directors whose vision came to us from all parts: jacques rivette the french new wave auteur with his meditations on life and art abbas kiarostami the iranian master with his searching examinations of ordinary lives andrzej wajda a rival to ingmar bergman and akira kurosawa in some critics eyes with his haunting tales of poland under the boot first of nazis and then of communists. a long roster of television stars of a generation or two ago passed on images of their younger selves frozen in time: noel neill (adventures of superman) alan young (mister ed) robert vaughn (the man from u. n. c. l. e. ) william schallert and patty duke (father and daughter on the patty duke show) dan haggerty (the life and times of grizzly adams) florence henderson (the brady bunch) and alan thicke (growing pains). and garry marshall the creative force who practically owned prime time with happy days mork mindy laverne shirley and more died at 81. on broadway lights were dimmed in memory of brian bedford tammy grimes and anne jackson all brilliant in their day. the architect zaha hadid left behind monuments to her fertile imagination and shaken acolytes around the world. the street photographer bill cunningham who found fashion statements on every corner was suddenly missing making manhattan overnight a less idiosyncratic less interesting place. that smiling skinny man pedaling his bicycle among the honking cabs in a blue french workers jacket with a camera slung around his neck  what a picture!  had split from the scene. so had seemingly a generation of fellow photographers who had made art in recording the last half of the 20th century: ruth gruber marc riboud louis stettner and more. and so had the tv journalists morley safer and gwen ifill and the tv commentator john mclaughlin all of whom had tried to make sense of it. musics other precincts were emptier without the conductor and revolutionary composer pierre boulez and the new music soprano phyllis curtin the jazz artists mose allison bobby hutcherson and gato barbieri the rapper phife dawg (malik taylor) and the latin megastar juan gabriel. silicon valley saw a giant depart in andrew s. grove who led the semiconductor revolution at intel. the television industry lost a executive grant tinker who in the 80s made nbc the network to watch in prime time. astrophysics and the smaller world of women in science said farewell to a pioneer and a champion in vera rubin. and for tens of thousands of people who might have choked to death had they not been saved by his simple but ingenious maneuver the passing of henry j. heimlich prompted not just sympathy but even more gratitude. come to think of it eliciting a large if silent thank you from those who live on is not a bad way for anyone to go. which brings us to marion pritchard. few who died in 2016 could have inspired measures of gratitude more profound. she was a brave young dutch student and a gentile who risked her life to save jews from death camps in the early 1940s in one instance shooting a nazi stooge before he could seize three little children she had been hiding. by her estimate she saved 150 people. how many were still alive when she died a few weeks ago at 96 is anyones guess. but we know for certain that some were and we can reasonably surmise that a good many more were too all of them still in possession of her selfless gift and her matchless legacy their very lives."}, {"tag": 4, "txts": "seoul south korea  north koreas leader kim said on sunday that his country was making final preparations to conduct its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile  a bold statement less than a month before the inauguration of donald j. trump. although north korea has conducted five nuclear tests in the last decade and more than 20 ballistic missile tests in 2016 alone and although it habitually threatens to attack the united states with nuclear weapons the country has never an intercontinental ballistic missile or icbm. in his annual new years day speech which was broadcast on the norths kctv on sunday mr. kim spoke proudly of the strides he said his country had made in its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. he said north korea would continue to bolster its weapons programs as long as the united states remained hostile and continued its joint military exercises with south korea. we have reached the final stage in preparations to an intercontinental ballistic rocket he said. analysts in the region have said mr. kim might conduct another weapons test in coming months taking advantage of leadership changes in the united states and south korea. mr. trump will be sworn in on jan. 20. in south korea president park whose powers were suspended in a parliamentary impeachment on dec. 9 is waiting for the constitutional court to rule on whether she should be formally removed from office or reinstated. if north korea conducts a test in coming months it will test mr. trumps new administration despite years of increasingly harsh sanctions north korea has been advancing toward mr. kims professed goal of arming his isolated country with the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead to the united states. mr. kims speech on sunday indicated that north korea may a rocket several times this year to complete its icbm program said cheong a senior research fellow at the sejong institute in south korea. the first of such tests could come even before mr. trumps inauguration mr. cheong said. we need to take note of the fact that this is the first new years speech where kim mentioned an intercontinental ballistic missile he said. in his speech mr. kim did not comment on mr. trumps election. doubt still runs deep that north korea has mastered all the technology needed to build a reliable icbm. but analysts in the region said the norths launchings of rockets to put satellites into orbit in recent years showed that the country had cleared some key technological hurdles. after the norths satellite launch in february south korean defense officials said the unha rocket used in the launch if successfully reconfigured as a missile could fly more than 7 400 miles with a warhead of 1 100 to 1 300 pounds  far enough to reach most of the united states. north korea has deployed rodong ballistic missiles that can reach most of south korea and japan but it has had a spotty record in the musudan its ballistic missile with a range long enough to reach american military bases in the pacific including those on guam. the north has also claimed a series of successes in testing various icbm technologies although its claims cannot be verified and are often disputed by officials and analysts in the region. it has said it could now make nuclear warheads small enough to fit onto a ballistic missile. it also claimed success in testing the technology that allows a missile to return to the earths atmosphere without breaking up. in april north korea reported the successful ground test of an engine for an intercontinental ballistic missile. at the time mr. kim said the north can tip intercontinental ballistic rockets with more powerful nuclear warheads and keep any cesspool of evils in the earth including the u. s. mainland within our striking range.  on sept. 9 the north conducted its fifth and most powerful nuclear test. mr. kim later attended another ground test of a new rocket engine exhorting his government to prepare for another rocket launch as soon as possible. in november the united nations security council imposed new sanctions against the north."}, {"tag": 5, "txts": "london  queen elizabeth ii who has been battling a cold for more than a week missed a new years day church service at her country estate in sandringham buckingham palace said on sunday. a week earlier the queen who is 90 missed a christmas day church service for the first time since 1988 because of the illness. the queen does not yet feel ready to attend church as she is still recuperating from a heavy cold the palace said in a statement. the queens husband prince philip who had also been ill was well enough to attend both services in the church at sandringham which is in norfolk on the east coast of england. the queen who ascended to the throne in 1952 became the worlds monarch following the death of king bhumibol adulyadej of thailand in october. she is also britains monarch having last year surpassed queen victorias reign. her mother lived until the age of 101."}, {"tag": 6, "txts": "beijing  president tsai of taiwan sharply criticized chinas leaders on saturday saying they had resorted to military and economic threats in order to intimidate the island. step by step beijing is going back to the old path of dividing coercing and even threatening and intimidating taiwan she told journalists in taipei the capital at a news conference. tensions between taiwan and china which have been rivals since the communist revolution of 1949 intensified in december after ms. tsai spoke on the phone with the american donald j. trump breaking a longstanding diplomatic practice. in recent weeks china has stepped up military activities near taiwan sending its sole aircraft carrier through the waters near the island and dispatching military planes in the region. on monday beijing announced that so tom and prncipe an island nation off the west coast of africa that was one of taiwans fewer than two dozen remaining diplomatic allies had switched its allegiance to the mainland provoking an outcry in taiwan. despite beijings recent actions which she said had hurt the feelings of the taiwanese people and destabilized relations ms. tsai vowed to avoid a confrontation. we will not bow to pressure and we will of course not revert to the old path of confrontation she said. ms. tsai faces the delicate task of registering discontent with beijing while also sending a message that taiwan will exercise restraint. the united states which sees taiwan as one of its most reliable allies in asia and has sold billions of dollars of weapons to the island has long sought to avoid a conflict between the two sides. but the election of mr. trump could complicate matters. he has antagonized beijing with a series of critical comments. the has also questioned the one china policy which has underpinned relations between washington and beijing for decades and criticized chinas military buildup in the disputed south china sea. bonnie s. glaser an asia expert at the center for strategic and international studies in washington said ms. tsais words might reassure american officials that she would not pursue rash policies in the face of chinas show of strength. she remains calm rational and patient ms. glaser wrote in an email. still ms. tsai whose democratic progressive party has traditionally favored independence for taiwan could face serious challenges in the coming months. many people in taiwan are nervous that mr. trump will use the island as a bargaining chip against china. and ms. tsais preference for stability in the region may not mesh with mr. trumps bombastic style. richard c. bush the director of the center for east asia policy studies at the brookings institution in washington said ms. tsai understood the need to maintain a balance among relations with china relations with the united states and domestic politics.  ms. tsais vision however may not align well with the incoming trump administrations apparent belief that it can pressure china on all fronts more than the obama administration has he said. ms. tsai also sought to quell concerns about planned stopovers in houston and san francisco during a visit to central america scheduled for january. the chinese ministry of foreign affairs on thursday called on the united states to block ms. tsai from entering the country warning that such a visit would embolden independence activists in taiwan. ms. tsai described the visit as unofficial saying a transit stop is just a transit stop. "}, {"tag": 7, "txts": "danny cahill stood slightly dazed in a blizzard of confetti as the audience screamed and his family ran on stage. he had won season 8 of nbcs reality television show the biggest loser shedding more weight than anyone ever had on the program  an astonishing 239 pounds in seven months. when he got on the scale for all to see that evening dec. 8 2009 he weighed just 191 pounds down from 430. dressed in a and shorts he was lean athletic and as handsome as a model. ive got my life back he declared. i mean i feel like a million bucks.  mr. cahill left the shows stage in hollywood and flew directly to new york to start a triumphal tour of the talk shows chatting with jay leno regis philbin and joy behar. as he heard from fans all over the world his elation knew no bounds. but in the years since more than 100 pounds have crept back onto his frame despite his best efforts. in fact most of that seasons 16 contestants have regained much if not all the weight they lost so arduously. some are even heavier now. yet their experiences while a bitter personal disappointment have been a gift to science. a study of season 8s contestants has yielded surprising new discoveries about the physiology of obesity that help explain why so many people struggle unsuccessfully to keep off the weight they lose. kevin hall a scientist at a federal research center who admits to a weakness for reality tv had the idea to follow the biggest loser contestants for six years after that victorious night. the project was the first to measure what happened to people over as long as six years after they had lost large amounts of weight with intensive dieting and exercise. the results the researchers said were stunning. they showed just how hard the body fights back against weight loss. it is frightening and amazing said dr. hall an expert on metabolism at the national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases which is part of the national institutes of health. i am just blown away.  it has to do with resting metabolism which determines how many calories a person burns when at rest. when the show began the contestants though hugely overweight had normal metabolisms for their size meaning they were burning a normal number of calories for people of their weight. when it ended their metabolisms had slowed radically and their bodies were not burning enough calories to maintain their thinner sizes. researchers knew that just about anyone who deliberately loses weight  even if they start at a normal weight or even underweight  will have a slower metabolism when the diet ends. so they were not surprised to see that the biggest loser contestants had slow metabolisms when the show ended. what shocked the researchers was what happened next: as the years went by and the numbers on the scale climbed the contestants metabolisms did not recover. they became even slower and the pounds kept piling on. it was as if their bodies were intensifying their effort to pull the contestants back to their original weight. mr. cahill was one of the worst off. as he regained more than 100 pounds his metabolism slowed so much that just to maintain his current weight of 295 pounds he now has to eat 800 calories a day less than a typical man his size. anything more turns to fat. the struggles the contestants went through help explain why it has been so hard to make headway against the nations obesity problem which afflicts more than a third of american adults. despite spending billions of dollars on drugs and dieting programs even the most motivated are working against their own biology. their experience shows that the body will fight back for years. and that said dr. michael schwartz an obesity and diabetes researcher who is a professor of medicine at the university of washington is new and important.  the key point is that you can be on tv you can lose enormous amounts of weight you can go on for six years but you cant get away from a basic biological reality said dr. schwartz who was not involved in the study. as long as you are below your initial weight your body is going to try to get you back.  the shows doctor robert huizenga says he expected the contestants metabolic rates to fall just after the show but was hoping for a smaller drop. he questioned though whether the measurements six years later were accurate. but maintaining weight loss is difficult he said which is why he tells contestants that they should exercise at least nine hours a week and monitor their diets to keep the weight off. unfortunately many contestants are unable to find or afford adequate ongoing support with exercise doctors psychologists sleep specialists and trainers  and thats something we all need to work hard to change he said in an email. the studys findings to be published on monday in the journal obesity are part of a scientific push to answer some of the most fundamental questions about obesity. researchers are figuring out why being fat makes so many people develop diabetes and other medical conditions and they are searching for new ways to block the poison in fat. they are starting to unravel the reasons bariatric surgery allows most people to lose significant amounts of weight when dieting so often fails. and they are looking afresh at medical care for obese people. the hope is that this work will eventually lead to new therapies that treat obesity as a chronic disease and can help keep weight under control for life. most people who have tried to lose weight know how hard it is to keep the weight off but many blame themselves when the pounds come back. but what obesity research has consistently shown is that dieters are at the mercy of their own bodies which muster hormones and an altered metabolic rate to pull them back to their old weights whether that is hundreds of pounds more or that extra 10 or 15 that many people are trying to keep off. there is always a weight a persons body maintains without any effort. and while it is not known why that weight can change over the years  it may be an effect of aging  at any point there is a weight that is easy to maintain and that is the weight the body fights to defend. finding a way to thwart these mechanisms is the goal scientists are striving for. first though they are trying to understand them in greater detail. dr. david ludwig the director of the new balance foundation obesity prevention center at boston childrens hospital who was not involved in the research said the findings showed the need for new approaches to weight control. he cautioned that the study was limited by its small size and the lack of a control group of obese people who did not lose weight. but he added the findings made sense. this is a subset of the most successful dieters he said. if they dont show a return to normal in metabolism what hope is there for the rest of us? still he added that shouldnt be interpreted to mean we are doomed to battle our biology or remain fat. it means we need to explore other approaches.  some scientists say weight maintenance has to be treated as an issue separate from weight loss. only when that challenge is solved they say can progress truly be made against obesity. there is a lot of basic research we still need to do said dr. margaret jackson who is directing a project at pfizer. her group is testing a drug that in animals at least acts like leptin a hormone that controls hunger. with weight loss leptin levels fall and people become hungry. the idea is to trick the brains of people who have lost weight so they do not become ravenous for lack of leptin. while many of the contestants kept enough weight off to improve their health and became more physically active the low weights they strived to keep eluded all but one of them: erinn egbert a caregiver for her mother in versailles ky. and she struggles mightily to keep the pounds off because her metabolism burns 552 fewer calories a day than would be expected for someone her size. what people dont understand is that a treat is like a drug said ms. egbert who went from 263 pounds to just under 176 on the show and now weighs between 152 and 157. two treats can turn into a binge over a period. that is what i struggle with.  six years after season 8 ended 14 of the 16 contestants went to the n. i. h. last fall for three days of testing. the researchers were concerned that the contestants might try to frantically lose weight before coming in so they shipped equipment to them that would measure their physical activity and weight before their visit and had the information sent remotely to the n. i. h. the contestants received their metabolic results last week. they were shocked but on further reflection decided the numbers explained a lot. all my friends were drinking beer and not gaining massive amounts of weight mr. cahill said. the moment i started drinking beer there goes another 20 pounds. i said this is not right. something is wrong with my body.  sean algaier 36 a pastor from charlotte n. c. feels cheated. he went from 444 pounds to 289 as a contestant on the show. now his weight is up to 450 again and he is burning 458 fewer calories a day than would be expected for a man his size. its kind of like hearing you have a life sentence he said. slower metabolisms were not the only reason the contestants regained weight though. they constantly battled hunger cravings and binges. the investigators found at least one reason: plummeting levels of leptin. the contestants started out with normal levels of leptin. by the seasons finale they had almost no leptin at all which would have made them ravenous all the time. as their weight returned their leptin levels drifted up again but only to about half of what they had been when the season began the researchers found thus helping to explain their urges to eat. leptin is just one of a cluster of hormones that control hunger and although dr. hall and his colleagues did not measure the rest of them another group of researchers in a different project did. in a study funded by australias national health and medical research council dr. joseph proietto of the university of melbourne and his colleagues recruited 50 overweight people who agreed to consume just 550 calories a day for eight or nine weeks. they lost an average of nearly 30 pounds but over the next year the pounds started coming back. dr. proietto and his colleagues looked at leptin and four other hormones that satiate people. levels of most of them fell in their study subjects. they also looked at a hormone that makes people want to eat. its level rose. what was surprising was what a coordinated effect it is dr. proietto said. the body puts multiple mechanisms in place to get you back to your weight. the only way to maintain weight loss is to be hungry all the time. we desperately need agents that will suppress hunger and that are safe with use.  mr. cahill 46 said his weight problem began when he was in the third grade. he got fat then fatter. he would starve himself and then eat a whole can of cake frosting with a spoon. afterward he would cower in the pantry off the kitchen feeling overwhelmed with shame. over the years his insatiable urge to eat kept overcoming him and his weight climbed: 370 pounds 400 460 485. i used to look at myself and think i am horrible i am a monster subhuman he said. he began sleeping in a recliner because he was too heavy to sleep lying down. walking hurt stairs were agony. buying clothes with a 68 waist was humiliating. i remember sitting in a dressing room one day and nothing would fit. i looked at the traffic outside on the street and thought i should just run out in front of a car.  he eventually seized on the biggest loser as his best chance to lose enough weight to live a normal life. he tried three times and was finally selected. before the show began the contestants underwent medical tests to be sure they could endure the rigorous schedule that lay ahead. and rigorous it was. sequestered on the biggest loser ranch with the other contestants mr. cahill exercised seven hours a day burning 8 000 to 9 000 calories according to a calorie tracker the show gave him. he took electrolyte tablets to help replace the salts he lost through sweating consuming many fewer calories than before. eventually he and the others were sent home for four months to try to keep losing weight on their own. mr. cahill set a goal of a deficit per day. the idea was to lose a pound a day. he quit his job as a land surveyor to do it. his routine went like this: wake up at 5 a. m. and run on a treadmill for 45 minutes. have breakfast  typically one egg and two egg whites half a grapefruit and a piece of sprouted grain toast. run on the treadmill for another 45 minutes. rest for 40 minutes bike ride nine miles to a gym. work out for two and a half hours. shower ride home eat lunch  typically a grilled skinless chicken breast a cup of broccoli and 10 spears of asparagus. rest for an hour. drive to the gym for another round of exercise. if he had not burned enough calories to hit his goal he went back to the gym after dinner to work out some more. at times he found himself running around his neighborhood in the dark until his indicator reset to zero at midnight. on the day of the on the shows finale mr. cahill and the others dressed carefully to hide the rolls of loose skin that remained to their surprise and horror after they had lost weight. they wore compression undergarments to hold it in. mr. cahill knew he could not maintain his finale weight of 191 pounds. he was so mentally and physically exhausted he barely moved for two weeks after his publicity tour ended. but he had started a new career giving motivational speeches as the biggest loser ever and for the next four years he managed to keep his weight below 255 pounds by exercising two to three hours a day. but two years ago he went back to his job as a surveyor and the pounds started coming back. soon the scale hit 265. mr. cahill started weighing and measuring his food again and stepped up his exercise. he got back down to 235 to 240 pounds. but his weight edged up again to 275 then 295. his slow metabolism is part of the problem and so are his food cravings. he opens a bag of chips thinking he will have just a few. id eat five bites. then id black out and eat the whole bag of chips and say what did i do?  dr. lee kaplan an obesity researcher at harvard says the brain sets the number of calories we consume and it can be easy for people to miss that how much they eat matters less than the fact that their bodies want to hold on to more of those calories. dr. michael rosenbaum an obesity researcher at columbia university who has collaborated with dr. hall in previous studies said the bodys systems for regulating how many calories are consumed and how many are burned are tightly coupled when people are not strenuously trying to lose weight or to maintain a significant weight loss. still pounds can insidiously creep on. we eat about 900 000 to a million calories a year and burn them all except those annoying 3 000 to 5 000 calories that result in an average annual weight gain of about one to two pounds he said. these very small differences between intake and output average out to only about 10 to 20 calories per day  less than one starburst candy  but the cumulative consequences over time can be devastating.  it is not clear whether this small imbalance and the resultant weight gain that most of us experience as we age are the consequences of changes in lifestyle the environment or just the biology of aging dr. rosenbaum added. the effects of small imbalances between calories eaten and calories burned are more pronounced when people deliberately lose weight dr. hall said. yes there are signals to regain weight but he wondered how many extra calories people were driven to eat. he found a way to figure that out. he analyzed data from a clinical trial in which people took a diabetes drug canagliflozin that makes them spill 360 calories a day into their urine or took a placebo. the drug has no known effect on the brain and the person does not realize those calories are being spilled. those taking the drug gradually lost weight. but for every five pounds they lost they were without realizing it eating an additional 200 calories a day. those extra calories dr. hall said were a bigger driver of weight regained than the slowing of the metabolism. and he added if people fought the urge to eat those calories they would be hungry. unless they continue to fight it constantly they will regain the weight he said. all this does not mean that modest weight loss is hopeless experts say. individuals respond differently to diet manipulations  or diets for example  and to exercise and drugs among other interventions. but dr. ludwig said that simply cutting calories was not the answer. there are no doubt exceptional individuals who can ignore primal biological signals and maintain weight loss for the long term by restricting calories he said but he added that for most people the combination of incessant hunger and slowing metabolism is a recipe for weight regain  explaining why so few individuals can maintain weight loss for more than a few months.  dr. rosenbaum agreed. the difficulty in keeping weight off reflects biology not a pathological lack of willpower affecting of the u. s. a.  he said. mr. cahill knows that now. and with his report from dr. halls group showing just how much his metabolism had slowed he stopped blaming himself for his weight gain. that shame that was on my shoulders went off he said."}, {"tag": 8, "txts": "just how is hillary kerr the founder of a digital media company in los angeles? she can tell you what song was playing five years ago on the jukebox at the bar where she somewhat randomly met the man who became her husband. it was these days the version sung by nico the german made famous by andy warhol and the velvet underground. actually the song had been playing just before she met jonathan leahy now 38 on that december night in 2011 at the 4100 bar in the silver lake district of los angeles. ms. kerr cant remember exactly what was playing when they met because at that moment she was jumping up and down like tigger as she put it. in answering the usual questions mr. leahy told her he was a music supervisor for girls the hbo show created by and starring lena dunham. that was enough to get ms. kerr bouncing. your music has changed my life! she told mr. leahy. mr. leahy who is quiet but not shy (at least he doesnt jump up and down upon meeting people) was mesmerized. my main reaction he said was its a lot easier to talk to beautiful women in a bar when youre working on a hit show.  they exchanged email addresses more an act of politeness than promise. then their soundtrack went quiet for almost a year. both mr. leahy and ms. kerr had active social lives but they were focused on their careers. mr. leahy who grew up in laconia n. h. graduated from the college of william and mary in williamsburg va. in 2000 and landed in los angeles later that year. now he is a music supervisor with aperture music and is joined by manish raval and tom wolfe in being responsible for the music on girls.  the team has also worked on films including trainwreck and television series such as new girl.  in addition mr. leahy is the music supervisor for survivors remorse on starz. ms. kerr grew up in the la jolla section of san diego graduated from the university of southern california in 2000 and eventually made her way to new york where she took a job as an assistant at elle magazine. in 2005 she moved back to the west coast to los angeles and with a fellow elle alum katherine power created a company best known for its website who what wear which casts an eye on celebrity culture and fashion it now has 13 million monthly unique visitors. ms. kerr and ms. power also started the who what wear clothing and accessories line sold at target. it was nine months after their initial meeting that mr. leahy emailed ms. kerr. he had a friend who wanted to get into the fashion industry. ms. kerr mr. leahy and his friend met for a long boozy brunch. they began to email and text a bit. there was banter ms. kerr said but neither knew the interest or intention of the other. a few months later she texted to ask if he could help her score a ticket to see the band lord huron. mr. leahy happens to be a friend of ben schneider the bands lead singer and had an extra ticket. this was one of those moments where the universe conspires to make you seem cooler than you actually are mr. leahy said. he and ms. kerr met up at the show. that is when mr. leahy and ms. kerr moved into the ambiguous mixtape era in which for months they emailed and texted each other with coy are we just friends or what texts revolving around music. for example ms. kerr was visiting new york and texted mr. leahy a request for walking around soho music.  he sent her a link to love me again by john newman. it has a club vibe but romantic lyrics. i wanted to read into it ms. kerr said but she figured (correctly it turns out) that her new friend was a bit of a clueless guy who didnt spend much time thinking about how a woman might react to such a song being shared with her. another time he emailed her a link to a fleetwood mac version of need your love so bad.  after listening to it ms. kerr said i called my friend katie.  at that time she continued i just referred to him as the supervisor. she knew i had a crush on him. she said how can it not mean something?  mr. leahy acknowledged that it might be difficult for a person to think he was not sending ms. kerr a message with this song. i sort of thought maybe its too much.  but he shared it with her anyway. (this is the same man who sent her the song bedbedbedbedbed vacationer remix by deleted scenes during the friend phase ms. kerr said.) ms. kerr played the game too. she made mr. leahy a mix cd (handwritten liner notes and all) that she titled feynman diagrams for all after mr. leahy told her in a text conversation that he thought the idea of feynman diagrams  in which physicists map out the interactions of subatomic particles  was romantic. on the mix ms. kerr included the mazzy star song ive been let down.  it was a bit of an easter egg of my actual feelings she said. around this time ms. kerr texted mr. leahy a photo of the drink menu from a bar the roger room. she had focused on a drink named for the song christmas card from a hooker in minneapolis which happens to be mr. leahys favorite tom waits tune. this made me rethink things a bit he said adding hillary kerr was clearly not to be trifled with.  in early 2014 mr. leahy invited her to a bleachers concert. the bands lead singer is jack antonoff who is ms. dunhams boyfriend. ms. dunham was at the concert as well and on meeting ms. kerr she said ive heard so much about you.  ms. kerr and mr. leahy shared their first kiss that night. he proposed to her on polihale beach in kauai hawaii on jan. 1 2016. on dec. 10 125 friends and relatives gathered in palm springs calif. at the colony palms hotel which was opened in 1936 by the reputed mobster al wertheimer and whose poolside guests have included frank sinatra ronald reagan kirk douglas and zsa zsa gabor. ms. kerr walked down a grassy aisle in a courtyard wearing a structured lace reem acra dress strapless with a bustier and a full skirt. four musicians played once with feeling an instrumental song mr. leahy wrote for ms. kerr. . just minutes into the cocktail reception a few of ms. kerrs best friends descended upon her. jen atkin the celebrity hairstylist and social media star started fussing with the flower she had sewn into the brides hair. joey maalouf the celebrity makeup artist who is a creator of the service the glam app whipped out a tube of lip gloss and reapplied it to the brides pucker. he had done her makeup. the look we went for is sickeningly stunning and perfect he said. guests mingled over drinks by the pool which was framed by banquette tables lit from above by strings of bulbs. the sky turned pink before the stars appeared and guests snapped photos and shared them with the hundreds of thousands who follow these members of the illuminati (#imwithkerr and #letsgetleahyed). this looks like its art directed eva chen the head of fashion partnerships for instagram said as she took it all in. she had worked as an assistant at elle with ms. kerr. friends of both the bride and the groom celebrated what they saw as a great match based on passion not only for each other but also for music. leigh belz ray the features and news director at instyle was another former elle colleague who made the trip. hillary loves music and its not just a casual thing ms. ray said. we used to say the ultimate fantasy was to become a music director and now shes married to one.  after a romantic first dance to solomon burkes if you need me mr. and mrs. leahy (she will use her maiden name professionally) settled into several hours of serious dancing to songs spun by a d. j. and before they left for their hawaiian honeymoon mr. leahy completed his first important act as husband. he pulled together many of the songs that could be considered the soundtrack to their romance and made his wife a mixtape. when dec. 10 2016 where colony palms hotel palm springs calif. flora the bride and groom were married under a white birch trellis because white birch is the state tree of new hampshire where mr. leahy grew up and where his parents richard and marie leahy reside. the structure was wrapped in white peonies sahara roses and camellia greens. readings mr. leahys family is roman catholic ms. kerrs parents john and carole kerr are more spiritual than religiously observant. many of the guests had an artistic bent. the bride and groom planned accordingly. marshall goldsmith an executive coach author and lifelong family friend of ms. kerr officiated. friends and relatives stood to read poems from james kavanaugh and mary oliver as well as a passage from the supreme courts 2015 ruling legalizing marriage. a little catholic priest a little lesbian pulitzer prize winner a little equal rights for all ms. kerr explained after the ceremony."}, {"tag": 9, "txts": "angels are everywhere in the muiz familys apartment in the bronx: paintings of angels on the wall ceramic angels flanking the ancient vcr angels strumming lyres or blowing little golden trumpets on the bathroom shelves. as jos and zoraida muiz and their children have struggled to deal with a series of trials and setbacks including cancer debilitating epilepsy deep depression and near eviction it has sometimes seemed as if angels and love were the only forces holding things together. zoraidas early life in puerto rico was like something from a tropical dickens novel. she and her siblings and mother built a house by hand after a hurricane ravaged their home and the childrens father withdrew support. then zoraidas grandfather  the father of her absent father  destroyed the house in a rage. she was barely a teenager when she met jos a vietnam war veteran. with permission from her uncle a judge they were married. she was 14. he was 29. they moved to new york in 1983 and started a new life. he built boilers. she worked in construction using skills she learned as a child and in a clothing store. but in 1987 mr. muiz began having violent seizures  eight or 10 a day. they did not respond to medication. he could no longer work. she stopped working to take care of him. still determined to live something like a normal life they started a family. their first child jos jr. had a heart defect. by the time he was 2 he had had six operations. thats where the angels came in  the first one was a painting a gift from a cousin. when they operated on my son they told me he was an angel because he was supposed to die ms. muiz 50 said. from there i figured that angels are taking care of me and protecting me and my family.  all the angels are gifts from friends and relatives or picked up off the street just like all the furniture in the muizes overstuffed apartment in a complex on westchester avenue in the bronx much of it restored by ms. muiz. so many people throw away things so i dont have to buy she said. a second son jesus became epileptic at 3. a girl maria completed the family. in 2007 mr. muiz had what felt like a horrible stubborn toothache. it turned out to be cancer of the lower jaw. ms. muiz stayed in the room with her husband while he received radiation treatment. im willing to take anything with him she said. i never left him alone and i never will.  radiation did not work. to save mr. muizs life surgeons removed his tongue and his lower jaw and cut a hole through his esophagus. disfigured depressed and unable to speak he can consume nothing thicker than milk and needs care. this is the household where the muiz children grew up. weve been through every craziness said jos jr. 24 who has suffered depression so severe that he dropped out of college and confined himself to the apartment every up and down.  for years at a time the family held on seemingly by a thread. over the summer the younger son jesus 22 got a job at a zaros bakery in manhattans financial district. because the familys rent is tied to income the rent tripled in august to about $770 a month from $245. but jesus had school bills to pay and the family paid some of the funeral expenses for jos sr. s mother who died over the summer and things began to unravel. they fell behind on the rent and utilities. food was often scarce. the family regularly skipped meals. it was around this time that ms. muiz got in touch with catholic charities archdiocese of new york one of the eight organizations supported by the new york timess neediest cases fund. it covered their back rent got them warm coats and blankets and helped them apply for food stamps for the first time. and with $600 from the neediest cases fund the family paid its electric bill. things are looking up in some ways. jesus is returning to college where he is on a track and wants to be a paramedic. maria graduated in december from a nursing program. thinking of her father and his illness she wants to be an oncologist. jos jr. was just accepted to the new york film academys photography program. but jos sr. continues to battle cancer. zoraida is severely depressed. what keeps her going? she was asked. she gestured toward her family sitting beside her beneath the painted angels. they give me my strength even if i have times i collapse she said. jos jr. agreed. i use my parents and siblings as my motivation he said. were all there for each other ms. muiz said."}, {"tag": 10, "txts": "with donald j. trump about to take control of the white house it would seem a dark time for the renewable energy industry. after all mr. trump has mocked the science of global warming as a chinese hoax threatened to kill a global deal on climate change and promised to restore the coal industry to its former glory. so consider what happened in the middle of december after investors had had a month to absorb the implications of mr. trumps victory. the federal government opened bidding on a tract of the ocean floor off new york state as a potential site for a huge wind farm. up up and away soared the offers  interest from the bidders was so fevered that the auction went through 33 rounds and spilled over to a second day. in the end the winning bidder offered the federal treasury $42 million more than twice what the government got in august for oil leases  oil leases  in the gulf of mexico. who won the bid? none other than statoil the norwegian oil company which is in the midst of a major campaign to turn itself into a big player in renewable energy. we do not know for sure that the new york wind farm will get built but we do know this: the energy transition is real and mr. trump is not going to stop it. on a global scale more than half the investment in new electricity generation is going into renewable energy. that is more than $300 billion a year a sign of how powerful the momentum has become. wind power is booming in the united states with the industry adding manufacturing jobs in the reddest states. when mr. trumps appointees examine the facts they will learn that technician is projected to be the occupation in america over the next decade. the election of mr. trump left climate activists and environmental groups in despair. they had pinned their hopes on a hillary clinton victory and a continuation of president obamas strong push to tackle global warming. now of course everything is in flux. in the worst case with a sufficiently pliant congress mr. trump could roll back a decade of progress on climate change. barring some miraculous conversion on mr. trumps part his election cannot be interpreted as anything but bad news for the climate agenda. yet despair might be an overreaction. for starters when mr. trump gets to the white house he will find that the federal government actually has relatively little control over american energy policy and particularly over electricity generation. the coal industry has been ravaged in part by cheap natural gas which is abundant because of technological changes in the way it is produced and there is no lever in the oval office that mr. trump can pull to reverse that. the intrinsically weak federal role was a source of frustration for mr. obama and his aides but now it will work to the benefit of environmental advocates. they have already persuaded more than half the states to adopt mandates on renewable energy. efforts to roll those back have largely failed with the latest development coming only last week when gov. john kasich of ohio a republican vetoed a rollback bill. the federal government does offer important subsidies for renewable energy and they will surely become a target in the new congress. but those subsidies are already scheduled to fall drastically over five years in a deal cut a year ago that gave the oil industry some favors and that passed congress with many republican votes. if mr. trump pushes for an early end to the subsidies he will find that renewable energy has friends in the republican party. topping that list is charles e. grassley the senior senator from iowa. that state  in presidential politics let us remember  will soon be getting 40 percent of its electricity from wind power. senator grassley has been and continues to be an extraordinary leader and champion for the wind industry said tom kiernan the head of the american wind energy association a trade group. when i spoke with him last week mr. kiernan did not sound like a man gnashing his teeth about the impending trump era. by his groups calculations $80 billion of wind industry investment is in the pipeline for the united states over the next few years. we are creating jobs throughout america jobs and we think trump will want that to continue he said. if mr. trump really wanted to roll back the clock he could try to get congress to override all the state mandates a gross violation of the supposed conservative commitment to federalism. but it would be a titanic fight some republican senators would defect on principle and mr. trump would almost certainly lose. so if the damage mr. trump can do domestically is limited by circumstance what about the international effort against global warming? that is the prospect that has david g. victor most worried. dr. victor a professor at the university of california at san diego is one of the closest observers of global climate politics. while the nations of the world agreed a year ago to a landmark deal to tackle global warming that consensus is fragile he pointed out. the paris agreement is really an outline more promise than reality. mr. trump has vowed to withdraw. right now other countries are saying they will go forward even if he does so but it is not hard to imagine the thing unraveling. as part of the negotiations the obama administration promised billions of dollars from american taxpayers to help poor countries adjust to the devastation of global warming. thats a big part of the glue that held the paris deal together dr. victor pointed out. mr. trump is considered likely to abandon that pledge. perhaps the biggest threat to the climate agenda posed by the incoming administration is not anything that mr. trump might do but rather what he will not do. while the energy transition is real it is still in its earliest stages. iowa may soon get 40 percent of its power from wind but for the united states as a whole the figure is closer to 5 percent. the transition is simply not happening fast enough. the pledges countries made in paris even if kept are not ambitious enough. to meet the climate goals embodied in the paris agreement the world needed an american president who would have pushed hard to accelerate the energy transition. you can debate whether mrs. clinton would have been that president but it is certainly clear that mr. trump will not be. so as washington goes into reverse gear on climate policy seas will keep rising and heat waves will get worse. later this month global monitoring agencies are expected to report that 2016 was the hottest year in the historical record beating out 2015 which beat out 2014. if nothing else the next four years may be a fascinating test of just how far politics can become divorced from physical reality."}, {"tag": 11, "txts": "thompsons tex.  can one of the most promising  and troubled  technologies for fighting global warming survive during the administration of donald j. trump? the technology carbon capture involves pulling carbon dioxide out of smokestacks and industrial processes before the gas can make its way into the atmosphere. mr. trumps denial of the overwhelming scientific evidence supporting climate change a view shared by many of his cabinet nominees might appear to doom any such environmental initiatives. but the new petra nova plant about to start running here about 30 miles southwest of houston is a bright spot for the technologys supporters. it is being completed essentially on time and within its budget unlike many previous such projects. when it fires up the plant which is attached to one of the power company nrgs hulking units will draw 90 percent of the co2 from the emissions produced by 240 megawatts of generated power. that is a fraction of the roughly 3 700 megawatts produced at this gargantuan plant the largest in the lone star state. still it is enough to capture 1. 6 million tons of carbon dioxide each year  equivalent to the greenhouse gas produced by driving 3. 5 billion miles or the co2 from generating electricity for 214 338 homes. from a tower hundreds of feet above the petra nova operation the carbon capture system looks like a fever dream of an erector set fanatic with mazes of pipes and gleaming tanks set off from the main plants skyscraping smokestacks and busy coal conveyors. petra nova uses the most common technology for carbon capture. the exhaust stream pushed down a snaking conduit to the petra nova equipment is exposed to a solution of chemicals known as amines which bond with the carbon dioxide. that solution is pumped to a regenerator or stripper which heats the amine and releases the co2. the gas is drawn off and compressed for further use and the amine solution is then cycled back through the system to absorb more co2. petra nova a joint venture of nrg and jx nippon oil and gas exploration will not just grab the co2 it will use it pushing compressed co2 through a new pipeline 81 miles to an oil field. the gas will be injected into wells a technique known as enhanced oil recovery that should increase production to 15 000 barrels a day from about 300 barrels a day. and since nrg owns a quarter of the oil recovery project what comes out of the ground will help pay for the carbon capture operation. the plant which has received $190 million from the federal government can be economically viable if the price of oil is about $50 a barrel said david knox an nrg spokesman. the company expects to declare the plant operational in january mr. knox said. aware of problems with carbon capture projects around the country and of the risks of hubris he said: were not going to declare victory before its time.  if the price of oil stabilizes or rises and if tax breaks for developing the technology continue and markets for carbon storage develop he said utilities might ask why would i not want to put a carbon capture system on my plant? but developing carbon capture has been neither straightforward nor easy. so far problems have bedeviled major projects often costing far more than projected and taking longer to complete. the federal government has canceled projects like future gen which was granted more than $1 billion by the obama administration. carbon capture systems are not just expensive to build they tend to be and make the plant less efficient over all  a problem known as parasitic load.  the petra nova carbon capture process gets its energy from a separate power plant constructed for the purpose which nrg says makes the system more efficient than it would otherwise be and frees up all of the capacity of the main power plant to sell all of the electricity it produces. the company estimates that the next plant it builds could cost 20 percent less thanks to lessons learned this time around. if petra nova succeeds it means a boost for carbon capture. despite carbon captures problems its supporters including the intergovernmental panel on climate change and the international energy agency call the technology known as carbon capture sequestration crucial for meeting emissions standards that can prevent the worst effects of climate change. if you dont have c. c. s. the chance of success goes down and the cost of success goes up said julio friedmann an expert at the lawrence livermore laboratories in california and a former energy department official. if you do have c. c. s. the chance of success goes up and the cost of success goes down.  carbon capture is proving itself said david mohler the deputy assistant secretary for clean coal and carbon management at the federal energy department. developing technologies often involves delay and cost overruns initially he said. you cannot engineer all the bugs out from inside a cubicle  you really have to do this stuff in the real world he said. driving down costs he noted is what engineers and businesses do through research development and production. he cited the plummeting cost of initially expensive technologies like solar power. we do figure things out as we go he said. what the trump administration will do with carbon capture is at this point anyones guess. the technology only makes sense in a world where you are seeking to avoid putting co2 into the atmosphere said mark brownstein a vice president for the climate and energy program at the environmental defense fund. but some supporters of the technology see reasons for hope. i actually think its a moment of optimism said senator heidi heitkamp of north dakota who met with mr. trump last month as a potential agriculture secretary. ms. heitkamp legislation with another democrat senator sheldon whitehouse of rhode island to expand and extend tax breaks for carbon capture projects. what i saw with the was a laserlike focus on jobs she said. i think he was intrigued about the economic opportunity that carbon capture could provide to keep coal power generation in the national mix she added. one of the pillars of mr. trumps campaign was his intention to revive the fortunes of the coal industry through support of clean coal. and while the exact meaning of the phrase is open to interpretation it generally includes not just technologies that remove soot and pollutants but also carbon dioxide. ms. heitkamp said that businesses too were likely to continue development of carbon capture technology since they planned their plant investments on a curve of decades and are loath to change course because of a single election. the decision they are making is not what does the political outlook look like today? whats it look like over the life of this plant? although she concedes that a revival of coals fortunes is unlikely carbon capture could be a way to extend the life of current facilities while keeping the nations energy mix diverse. jeff erikson general manager at the global c. c. s. institute which promotes the technology said he did not expect to see a great number of new coal plants on the way. i wouldnt say carbon capture is going to rescue the coal industry he said but pointed out that there is great potential for applying carbon capture to diverse natural gas plants and to industrial applications. captured carbon can be used not just for oil production but a widening range of industrial processes or can even be pumped into the ground. one of the most innovative approaches to carbon capture is being tried 50 miles east of the petra nova plant in la porte tex. where a consortium of companies is trying an entirely new approach to power generation. in a $140 million 50 megawatt demonstration project the company net power will use superheated carbon dioxide in much the same way that conventional power plants use steam to drive turbines. this system invented by a british engineer rodney allam eliminates the inefficiency inherent in heating water into steam and cooling it again. the power plant produces a stream of very pure pressurized carbon dioxide that is ready for pipelines without much of the additional processing that conventional carbon capture systems require. the creators say that their technology will produce electric power at a price comparable to power plants the efficient plants that burn gas to power one turbine and then use the excess heat from that process to generate additional power with a steam turbine. that means in effect that the cost of being green is zero said bill brown the chief executive of net power. the potential to capture co2 at no additional cost would be a game changer said fatima maria ahmad a fellow at the center for climate and energy solutions a think tank. net power combines the resources of exelon generation a power company the engineering and construction firm cbi and 8 rivers capital which developed the technology used in the project. the centerpiece of the project is a special turbine built by toshiba and designed for the punishingly high pressure used in the process. and while any system that so closely resembles a rocket engine has the potential for what engineers delicately refer to as a rud  rapid unplanned disassembly  those working directly on the project say they have designed safety features that give them confidence. even if the united states government shows little interest in reducing the nations carbon footprint under mr. trump and a republican congress consortium officials say they expect to find ready customers from companies in the united states and around the globe where the threat of climate change is fully acknowledged. we see this very much playing into all parts of the world said daniel mccarthy executive vice president for cbis technology operating group. environmentalists remain divided on the issue of carbon capture said john coequyt global climate policy director for sierra club. this is the issue where the biggest range of positions exists within the environmental community he said. groups like the clean air task force favor it strongly. other factions call clean coal a fig leaf to keep coal with all of its environmental baggage in the energy mix. and many suggest the billions of dollars spent on trying to capture carbon would be better directed to the technologies that dont pollute the atmosphere in the first place. dr. friedmann the former energy official predicted that the technology would prove its usefulness. its convenient to just say keep it in the ground  he said referring to an slogan. what i prefer to say is keep it from the air. "}, {"tag": 12, "txts": "west palm beach fla.  when donald j. trump rang in the new year this weekend he did it in opulence joined by the actor sylvester stallone the gossip page fixture fabio and a crowd of wealthy developers reveling under the swaying palm trees at mr. trumps resort in palm beach. president george w. bush had his ranch in crawford tex. his father had a compound in kennebunkport me. president obama has taken frequent vacations in hawaii staying at a private home. but mr. trumps private club in florida where he has spent the past two weeks away from his home in new york city is likely to eclipse them all as the 45th presidents winter white house. and that was always the intention of marjorie meriweather post the cereal heiress and the propertys original owner who left to the federal government when she died in 1973 hoping it would serve as a home for presidents. but the government had no interest in her plan and mr. trump later bought the property for less than $10 million turning it into a club where membership costs six figures. mr. trumps arrival was greeted with sneers by the palm beach elite and he opened up s membership to jews and who had been excluded from other establishments. he was also the first club owner on the island to admit an openly gay couple. since mr. trumps victory in november has been stuffed with guests attracted by an amenity unique to this club: the chance to rub shoulders with the next president. its like going to disneyland and knowing mickey mouse will be there all day long said jeff greene a developer and unsuccessful democratic candidate for the senate from florida in 2010 who is a member and was a hillary clinton supporter. instead of hosting major corporate executives and potential cabinet secretaries for interviews inside a boxy transition office at trump tower in midtown manhattan mr. trump has been seated at an ornately designed couch upholstered in pale fabric laced with gold beneath a chandelier hanging from the ceiling a scene resembling a mansion in sunset boulevard or citizen kane two of mr. trumps favorite movies. at night the couches are moved out and tables are added to accommodate the evening cocktail crowd among whom mr. trump moves from one table to the next the most powerful greeter in the world. at the annual new years eve party on saturday night a white menu included mr. trumps wedge salad a wild mushroom and swiss chard ravioli and a breakfast buffet.  those in attendance drifted in under a striped awning the men dressed in tuxedos the women in ball gowns many with their hair swept high. guests stepped onto a red carpet as they entered the club and wandered over to a poolside cocktail party. mr. trump later delivered remarks according to a guest who said he thanked his family and the club members for their support over the years. howie carr a conservative radio host who was supportive of mr. trump roamed the crowd with mr. carr posting on twitter that his daughter asked mr. trump if she could be an intern in the white house. mr. trumps two adult sons eric and donald jr. posed for photographs. joe scarborough and mika brzezinski from msnbcs morning joe were also there. like most aspects of mr. trumps business interests the party generated controversy as tickets to it were made available to club members and guests for a little more than $500. mr. trumps aides rejected the questions. mr. trump returned to new york on sunday night. but the club will remain an escape for him. his contentious twitter posts belie his relative calm when he is at compared with when he is isolated inside trump tower. mr. trumps combative public persona  often on display during his campaign  mostly dissolves behind the walls of his castle.  is an environment he can control said the historian douglas brinkley who last week attended a lunch with a longtime club member chris ruddy the chief executive of newsmax media. i watched him hold court  he was so comfortable in his own skin and so relaxed.  mr. ruddy has hosted mr. carr and laura ingraham another conservative radio host who supported mr. trump at the club and has introduced mr. trump to a range of news media figures politicians and donors. he described the as seeking the donald trump: totally at ease very positive very gregarious.  mr. trump appears to feed off contact with the people at the club. over the thanksgiving holiday he queried dinner guests about whether he should appoint rudolph w. giuliani or mitt romney as his secretary of state (he ended up picking neither). during this trip he has heaped praise on his ultimate choice for the job rex w. tillerson the head of exxon mobil. (mr. trump has called him mr. exxon. ) he talks about the work he has done to find a solution for the problems at the department of veteran affairs which included a recent meeting with a number of executives at . mr. trump told a new york times reporter that he intended to make brian burns the businessman son of a confidante of joseph p. kennedy the ambassador to ireland. isaac perlmutter the reclusive head of marvel entertainment is a member who helped mr. trump put that meeting together. mr. trump has also held with robert k. kraft the owner of the new england patriots and a club member and hosted prominent figures like carlos slim the billionaire who is mexicos richest man. mr. trump his wife melania and their son barron inhabit a residential area of the club. his adult children and their families usually stay in nearby cabanas on the property. mr. trump frequently dines on the patio a central point of action where at night a singer plays with a small band sometimes belting out requests from mr. trump and other guests. (my way a song popularized by frank sinatra was one recent choice.) a violinist sometimes moves among tables plucking tunes like the theme from fiddler on the roof.  mr. trump has given the cadre of white house reporters who now cover him some access to the club but grudgingly so  he once again eluded the reporters covering him on saturday slipping away without any warning to play golf at another of his clubs nearby in jupiter. and outside the confines of old grievances flare up. on the golf course mr. trump spotted harry hurt a biographer who wrote critically of mr. trump years ago preparing to play a round with david h. koch a billionaire conservative donor. mr. trump ordered club officials to remove mr. hurt from the property according to a facebook post by mr. hurt. over the years mr. trump has also been perpetually at loggerheads with palm beach officials. he has filed lawsuits attempting to keep noisy planes from flying over and there have been disputes over the height of his oversize flagpole on the grounds. with its owners coming new job the club has had some changes. guests now go through an elaborate security screen to gain access to the main entrance. secret service agents are now sprinkled throughout the property at night blending into the shrubbery along the grounds. robin bernstein a club member for nearly 25 years said that some club members might express frustration but that most thought it was important that we keep donald and his family safe.  attendees seem to see a benefit so far in having the around and expect it will continue. the loser in this game is camp david said mr. brinkley referring to the longtime presidential retreat in maryland. once youre at and its so opulent and the idea of suddenly inserting yourself into camp davids maryland mountains environment seems unlikely. "}, {"tag": 13, "txts": "this article is part of a series aimed at helping you navigate lifes opportunities and challenges. what else should we write about? contact us: smarterliving@nytimes. com. when you woke up this morning what did you do first? did you hop in the shower check your email or grab a doughnut? what did you say to your roommates on the way out the door? salad or hamburger for lunch? when you got home did you put on your sneakers and go for a run or eat dinner in front of the television? most of the choices we make each day may feel like the products of decision making but theyre not. theyre habits. and though each habit means relatively little on its own over time the meals we eat how we spend our evenings and how often we exercise have enormous impacts. this is particularly true in our 20s when so many of our habits are still up for grabs. the patterns you establish right now will impact your health productivity financial security and happiness for decades. how much money you make how much time you spend with your friends and family how well your body functions years from now  all of these in many ways are products of the habits you are building today. (related: the 8 health habits experts say you need in your 20s) and in the last decade our understanding of the neurology of habit formation has been transformed. weve learned how habits form  and why they are so hard to break. we now know how to create good habits and change bad ones like never before. at the core of every habit is a neurological loop with three parts: a cue a routine and a reward. to understand how to create habits  such as exercise habits  you must learn to establish the right cues and rewards. in 2002 researchers at new mexico state university studied 266 individuals most of whom worked out at least three times a week. they found that many of them had started running or lifting weights almost on a whim or because they suddenly had free time or wanted to deal with unexpected stresses in their lives. however the reason they continued exercising  why it became a habit  was because of a specific cue and a specific reward. if you want to start running each morning its essential that you choose a simple cue (like always lacing up your sneakers before breakfast or always going for a run at the same time of day) and a clear reward (like a sense of accomplishment from recording your miles or the endorphin rush you get from a jog). but countless studies have shown that at first the rewards inherent in exercise arent enough. so to teach your brain to associate exercise with a reward you need to give yourself something you really enjoy  like a small piece of chocolate  after your workout. this is counterintuitive because most people start exercising to lose weight. but the goal here is to train your brain to associate a certain cue (its 5 oclock) with a routine (three miles down! ) and a reward (chocolate! ). eventually your brain will start expecting the reward inherent in exercise (its 5 oclock. three miles down! endorphin rush! ) and you wont need the chocolate anymore. in fact you wont even want it. but until your neurology learns to enjoy those endorphins and the other rewards inherent in exercise you need to the process. and then over time it will become automatic to lace up your jogging shoes each morning. you wont want the chocolate anymore. youll just crave the endorphins. the cue in addition to triggering a routine will start triggering a craving for the inherent rewards to come. want more? you might also like:  the scientific workout  no time to workout? try exercising on the job  how to pick a health insurance plan"}, {"tag": 14, "txts": "its the season for family travel and photos  and perhaps enlarging some of those images of snowy landscapes or tropical getaways to decorate your home. there are of course the usual print services and methods. you can choose a glossy or matte finish print a photo on canvas or make it into a poster with a few clicks online at photo sites like snapfish and shutterfly professional photo shops like adorama and mpix or drugstores and chains like walgreens and costco. but the web is also home to many printing services as well as uncommon surfaces on which to enlarge photos for display be it burlap wood boards acrylic or fabric. why not try some fresh sites and methods? i recently sent some quality iphone vacation photos to a handful of companies that id never used before and had them enlarged to various sizes and printed on different surfaces. ive also offered some guidance about bulk digitizing those boxes of old travel photos sitting in your closet or basement so that you can begin the new year if not with a vacation then with a home. of all the ways to turn photos into wall art i was most interested in trying engineer prints named for the large lightweight prints used by architects. for less than the cost of a couple of movie tickets you can make huge enlargements. mind you its a particular aesthetic one thats most likely to appeal to people who are after an industrial shabby chic or bohemian look. the paper is thin and the lines of the images are softer than a fine art print. and engineer prints need not be formally framed. people stick them to their walls with washi tape a crafting tape that comes in innumerable colors and prints or they hang the prints using wood poster rails or skeleton clips. for a while engineer prints from photos were primarily available in black and white but now you can find them in color too. one of the easiest ways to order them online is through parabo press which is run by photojojo an online photography gear shop and zoomin a photo printing service in asia. as with all printing sites you upload your image zoom in closer if you like and then click to buy. the sites engineer prints are 4 feet by 3 feet and cost $20 in black and white and $25 in color. i sent out two different photos to be made in black and white and they came out to my surprise beautifully. i was impressed that they were able to be enlarged to such a degree and not look blurry. and the paper (while so thin i was worried about accidentally tearing it) lends it an artful careless look rather than the expected framed print over the couch. parabo press is a breeze to use: its clean and easy to read your options are straightforward and there are no annoying upsells. the site also offers prints on metal glass newsprint and zines (handmade magazines) calendars photo books and prints from its risograph machine which uses ink and is described by parabo as having a cult following since its invention in 1980s japan.  a fabric print  not soft like a bedsheet more like a place mat made of matte woven fabric  is another departure from a traditional photo enlargement. order one from a site such as snapbox and instead of framing it you can peel and stick it on your wall. the sites fabric posters adhere to (and can be peeled off) smooth surfaces such as untextured walls glass ceilings tile and finished wood surfaces (avoid surfaces like stucco concrete blocks brick unfinished wood canvas or freshly painted walls). snapbox offers fabric posters in more than a dozen sizes from 4x4 to 36x54 from less than $2 to about $80. i ordered a 24x36 fabric poster for $34. 99 a discounted price thanks to a holiday coupon  not cheap (you can buy fine art prints on other sites for less) but youre printing on special material. regardless of the cost i expected the finished product to look like the sort of cheap thing one might see in a dorm room (it sticks to walls after all) but i was pleasantly surprised. the fabric was durable and the details in the photo  crevasses in a glacier onlookers on a bridge  were nicely defined. snapbox is a site with clear instructions and pricing. in addition to fabric posters it also offers fine art prints photo books and prints on canvas and pillows. while many places can print photos on hard surfaces such as metal and acrylic printing on wood boards is less common. the grain shows through your photos which thematically speaking seems to make sense for certain subjects like nature photos taken at say the beach or in a park. but what would something more modern like a skyscraper or a tower look like on wood? i decided to give it a try and put an image of tokyo tower on an 8x12 board ($65). i sent the photo to photobarn a family business that makes its products by hand in a   in tennessee. the result was a lovely departure from framed prints and from canvas which can sometimes make striking photos look like amateur paintings. the wood was smooth and thick and the image was crisp with a slight sheen  a perfect complement to the steel of tokyo tower and the silver and glass of surrounding skyscrapers. for the most part the site is intuitive though a few too many holiday sale buttons on the home page made for a disorienting start. photobarn will also print your photos on canvas burlap and other wood products like ornaments. i noticed a number of complaints about photobarn on yelp and the better business bureau website regarding shipping speeds and customer service. i didnt have a problem but if time is of the essence you may want to check with the company before placing an order. once youve turned the best of your travel photos into art its time to store the rest. if boxes of prints are taking up closet (and psychic) space there are plenty of sites online that will scan your old photos (as well as negatives slides and videos) so you can store them digitally. but there are several things to keep in mind. in general these sites are a pain to navigate. theyre cluttered with too much text and fine print and they offer so many options  do you want your photos scanned in order? do you want both sides of the photo scanned?  that if you dont have a goal in mind before you go in you can quickly be overwhelmed. decide ahead of time what exactly you want to scan how many photos you have and how you might use whatever you scan. also note that some of these companies by default send dvds or cds of your digital files. not everyone has a cd or dvd player. if you want a thumb drive instead be sure to select that option (if its offered) or call the company and see if it will provide one. be aware too that its not unusual for these companies to have long lead times. a number of them digitize your photos in other countries so it can take weeks to get your images back. for affordable bulk scans scanmyphotos. com is an old standby (you can read david pogues review on nytimes. com). the company will scan about 1 800 photos at 300 dpi for $145 at its headquarters in irvine calif. the cost of sending the photo box to you as well as the shipping of the box to scanmyphotos and back to you again is included in the price. thats one of the least costly and most uncomplicated deals around. other companies charge for shipping photo boxes. i asked a photo editor at the times if 300 dpi is sufficient for scanning and she said that to print photos at larger sizes a higher dpi is preferable. scanmyphotos has such an option: a prepaid box for $259 for the same number of scans at 600 dpi instead of 300 dpi. a thumb drive is an additional $15. 95 a box. to find the best place to scan photos and film the wirecutter a consumer review site owned by the new york times researched 37 different scanning services and tested the top 12 contenders. memories renewed took the number one spot. the company based in minneapolis minn. offered the best combination of price quality and turnaround time of any service we tested wirecutter said. i was planning to try the service however according to the memories renewed site demand is so high at the moment that the lead time for most projects is more than two months. scanning photos of any size up to 8. 5x11 is 60 cents a photo a thumb drive is $10 for 8 gb or $15 for 16 gb. lets say you dont want to ship your irreplaceable photos in the mail. or maybe youd rather that strangers not see your photos and home videos. you could buy a scanner and scan your photos yourself perhaps doing a batch for half an hour each day. personally i dont want machines around my home collecting dust (and fast becoming outdated). so i decided to try the new photoscan app by google photos. its free and enables users to scan prints with a smartphone. first things first: these are not scans. if you have prized photos in need of restoration then go with a professional. however if like me you have a bunch of travel photos  landscapes food monuments  that youre keeping simply because you want to remember where you were when you may want to consider trying the app instead of giving up some privacy and spending upward of $150. by and large photoscan is simple and quick with almost no learning curve. if you try it just make sure to hold your phone level when asked to move it over the image. remember these words: dont tilt your phone! most of the scans i made looked as good as the prints in terms of color and clarity. that said this is unlikely to be your solution if you want prints or have thousands of photos to scan. once you get the hang of photoscan using it becomes a repetitive vaguely activity. that is unless the app crashes which it did several times. but i was still glad for it. even when it crashed it took only the tap of a finger to begin again. and you cant beat the price."}, {"tag": 15, "txts": "finally. the second avenue subway opened in new york city on sunday with thousands of riders flooding into its polished stations to witness a piece of history nearly a century in the making. they descended beneath the streets of the upper east side of manhattan to board q trains bound for coney island in brooklyn. they cheered. their eyes filled with tears. they snapped selfies in front of colorful mosaics lining the walls of the stations. it was the first day of 2017 and it felt like a new day for a city that for so long struggled to build this sorely needed subway line. in a rare display of unbridled optimism from hardened new yorkers they arrived with huge grins and wide eyes taking in the bells and whistles at three new stations. i was very choked up betsy morris 70 said as she rode the first train to leave the 96th street station at noon. how do you explain something that you never thought would happen? its going to change the way everybody lives as far as commuting goes.  it was a major moment for new yorks sprawling transit system after decades of failed efforts to bring the line to one of the few corners of manhattan the subway did not reach. the opening of the first segment of the line  an extension of the q train to 96th street  promises to lighten the crush of passengers on the nos. 4 5 and 6 trains along lexington avenue the nations most overcrowded subway line which had been the only line on the upper east side of manhattan. when the stations opened shortly before noon they were quickly filled with giddy riders both young and old and strollers suitcases and dogs  all familiar sights across the system. but for all the excitement the line with just three new stops is much more modest than the ambitious route running the length of manhattan that was once envisioned. it serves a relatively affluent and not very diverse part of the city which has more than eight and a half million people and many and minority residents who live far from a subway line. with the subway reaching its highest ridership levels since 1948 much of the aging system is plagued by crowding and delays even as subway and bus fares are expected to rise again in march. still there was reason to cheer. the opening of a new subway line is a rare occasion in the united states and comes at a time of mounting concern about the deteriorating state of the nations infrastructure from its roadways and bridges to its public transit systems. few new subway stations have opened in recent years even as expansive subway networks have sprouted in asia and most american cities never built any in the first place. the major subways in the northeast  in new york washington and boston  are grappling with old equipment and funding shortfalls with washington experiencing a near meltdown over safety problems. with mounting bills for basic maintenance these subways have largely failed to grow. so the arrival of the second avenue subway which was first proposed in the 1920s was a notable achievement for the metropolitan transportation authority which runs the citys vast network of subways buses and commuter railroads. the first phase of the project took nearly a decade to build and cost about $4. 4 billion. with the opening the map of the citys loved and loathed subway adds three new stations bringing the total to 472  the most of any subway in the world. a station that opened at hudson yards on manhattans far west side in 2015 was the citys first new station in a . on sunday new yorkers were mesmerized by the artwork adorning the walls. at the 72nd street stop sumana harihareswara stopped to gaze at a mosaic of a woman of south asian descent dressed in a burgundy sari looking at her cellphone. ms. harihareswara was overcome with emotion. i dont think ive ever come across subway art before that makes me feel so seen she said through tears. this woman could be my aunt she could be my cousin.  she and a stranger exchanged a knowing glance. representation matters they agreed. ms. harihareswara a longtime transit enthusiast from astoria queens said she was struck by the diversity portrayed in the mosaics including a mural of a gay couple holding hands. there is no feeling quite like seeing yourself cemented into the infrastructure of new york ms. harihareswara said. after decades of aborted efforts to build the second avenue line and at least three groundbreakings in the 1970s construction on the current segment began in 2007. the line was originally projected to open in 2013 but subway officials pushed the deadline to the end of 2016 many years ago. gov. andrew m. cuomo a democrat who effectively controls the authority pressed officials to meet the december 2016 deadline even as concerns grew that the subway would not be ready in time. still the agency made the deadline  just barely  with a lavish inaugural ride on new years eve for a collection of dignitaries that culminated in a midnight toast. although many new yorkers believe the city runs the subways it is actually the governor who appoints the authoritys chairman and holds considerable sway over the agency. mr. cuomo has capitalized on the second avenue opening to raise his national profile overshadowing his frequent nemesis mayor bill de blasio a democrat who attended the inaugural ride on saturday but was not given a speaking slot. despite general good will over the opening some transit advocates expressed concerns over the high cost of the project and questioned whether officials would move aggressively to extend the line to 125th street in east harlem as planned. on sunday morning mr. cuomo arrived at the 96th street station with the authoritys chairman thomas f. prendergast to join the first trip for regular riders who cheered as the train pulled out of the station. then mr. cuomos voice came over the loudspeaker. rest assured: im not driving the train he joked. the first day of service was smooth although there were a few hiccups. around 3 p. m. there were delays on the q line because of a train with mechanical problems at the city hall station. about an hour earlier the elevator at the new 86th street stop had begun to malfunction stranding passengers above and below ground. strollers were wheeled onto steep escalators. parents became upset. jill tallmer 62 and her mother margot tallmer 91 contemplated visiting another day. weve been waiting for 10 years or more to ride the younger ms. tallmer said while standing with her mother a lifelong new yorker who is in a wheelchair. hopefully its almost ready for us.  it was not and they left after a few minutes. at the 72nd street station george braith a jazz saxophonist was being mobbed by an eager pack of veritable paparazzi. the reason for his newfound celebrity: his likeness is featured in a mosaic there. would you look at that guy? mr. braith 77 said. pretty handsome fellow if you ask me.  he is one of several local celebrities portrayed in the artwork including chef daniel boulud. in mr. braiths mosaic he is clad in a slick red blazer and carrying his signature braithophone alto and soprano saxophones melded into one. taking the instrument from his suitcase he obliged the crowd with a brief tune. are you famous? a asked seeing the hubbub. in the jazz world mr. braith replied. the man shook his head and said well youre immortalized as far as im concerned.  another celebrant ian ma 15 lives in sheepshead bay a waterfront neighborhood in southern brooklyn that is nowhere near the new subway line. but he has been enchanted by trains since he started rolling toy models on the floor as a child he said and he cajoled his parents into giving him a ride. i feel like ive been waiting for this train my whole life he said seemingly speaking for many others."}, {"tag": 16, "txts": " pages into the journal found in dylann s. roofs car  after the assertions of black inferiority the lamentations over white powerlessness the longing for a race war  comes an incongruous declaration. i want state that i am morally opposed to psychology wrote the young white supremacist who would murder nine black worshipers at emanuel a. m. e. church in charleston s. c. in june 2015. it is a jewish invention and does nothing but invent diseases and tell people they have problems when they dont.  mr. roof who plans to represent himself when the penalty phase of his federal capital trial begins on tuesday apparently is devoted enough to that proposition (or delusion as some maintain) to stake his life on it. although a defense based on his psychological capacity might be his best opportunity to avoid execution he seems steadfastly committed to preventing any public examination of his mental state or background. i will not be calling mental health experts or presenting mental health evidence he wrote to judge richard m. gergel of federal district court on dec. 16 a day after a jury took only two hours to find him guilty of 33 counts including hate crimes resulting in death obstruction of religion and firearms violations. at a hearing on wednesday mr. roof told the judge that he planned to make an opening statement but not call witnesses or present evidence on his behalf. the testimony presented by prosecutors during the guilt phase of mr. roofs trial detailed with gruesome precision how he had plotted and executed the massacre during a wednesday night bible study in the churchs fellowship hall. it was less satisfying in revealing why he had done it. with his choice to sideline his legal team and represent himself the second phase  when the same jury of nine whites and three blacks will decide whether to sentence him to death or to life in prison  may prove little different. death penalty experts said it was exceedingly rare for capital defendants to represent themselves after allowing lawyers to handle the initial part of a case. mr. roof who also faces a death penalty trial in state court has not publicly explained his reasoning. but legal filings strongly suggest a split with his defenders about whether to argue that his rampage resulted from mental illness. mr. roofs lead lawyer david i. bruck tried repeatedly to plant that notion during the guilt phase knowing it might be his only chance. because evidence of mitigating factors is supposed to be reserved for the penalty phase judge gergel allowed him little leeway. in his closing argument while acknowledging mr. roofs guilt mr. bruck managed to tell the jury that mr. roof subscribed to the mad idea that he can make things better by massacring the most virtuous kind and gentle people he could ever have found.  mr. bruck seeded his speech with words like abnormal irrationality senselessness delusional obsession and perseveration a psychiatric term referring to the uncontrollable repetition of a particular response. mr. bruck one of the countrys most experienced death penalty litigators portrayed his client as a loner whose most meaningful relationship seemed to be with his cat who staged hundreds of photographs of himself with no sign of friends whose racial hatred was ignited by internet searches and not personal experience who could not pinpoint during his confession to the f. b. i. how many he had killed how long he had spent at the church or even what month it was who had no escape plan and left suicide notes to his parents. there was something in him that made him feel that he had to do it mr. bruck said and that is as much as he knows.  after receiving the results of a psychiatric examination in november judge gergel found mr. roof competent to stand trial  meaning that he was capable of understanding the proceedings and assisting in his defense. at mr. brucks request the judge scheduled a second competency hearing for monday but he signaled last week that he saw no reason to delay the penalty phase. the judge has repeatedly warned mr. roof against representing himself including immediately after the verdicts when he called it a bad decision and urged him to fully appreciate the implications.  the warnings have had no discernible effect on mr. roof who has until tuesday to reverse his decision to relegate his lawyers to standby counsel. that status allows mr. bruck and his team to offer guidance but not to question witnesses or make objections. prosecutors plan a procession of grief perhaps calling dozens of members of victims families to testify about the impact of the killings. the prosecutors are also likely to the considerable evidence of mr. roofs premeditation and clearly articulated racial intent. death penalty experts said the absence of mental health evidence to mitigate those aggravating factors could be decisive. if the jury views roof as evil and having made a knowing intelligent choice to kill these innocent churchgoing people in order to foment racial hatred they are much more likely to impose the death penalty than if they believe him to be a young and severely mentally ill person who acted under delusional racist beliefs said robert dunham executive director of the death penalty information center a research group. it would take only one holdout on the jury which consists of 10 women and two men to spare mr. roof from lethal injection. judge gergel has ruled that the jurors can be told that prosecutors had rejected mr. roofs offer through mr. bruck to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence. many in charleston were relieved by mr. roofs conviction in light of the mistrial that had been declared 10 days earlier in the state murder prosecution of michael t. slager the white north charleston policeman whose fatal shooting of a black motorist in 2015 was captured on video. even those who oppose the death penalty on moral grounds like the rev. joseph a. darby a presiding elder for the african methodist episcopal church in charleston said it would seem bewildering for mr. roof to escape capital punishment. that could very well be the end of the death penalty in america because if there was ever justification for killing anybody this is the case mr. darby said. there is no consensus among members of the victims families about mr. roofs fate. when the justice department elected in may to seek the death penalty it acted against the wishes of many and of the two women he had spared. five relatives offered mr. roof a measure of forgiveness at a remarkable bond hearing two days after the shootings. but by law those who testify now are prohibited from telling the jury what penalty they think he should receive. its going to be extremely emotional powerful testimony said john h. blume a death penalty expert who teaches at cornell law school and that emotion could implicitly and misleadingly indicate to the jury that some of these people want the death penalty when its not the case.  if mr. roof is sentenced to death it will be the first time a jury has done so in a prosecution involving the federal hate crimes law according to experts on capital cases. that statute which was broadened in 2009 does not carry a potential death sentence but mr. roof was also convicted of other crimes that do. a death sentence most likely would give way to a yearslong series of appeals (in which mr. roof could not represent himself). among the issues could be the composition of the jury given that mr. roof acted rather passively as his own lawyer when it was selected the withholding of evidence on mental health and other mitigating factors and mr. roofs competence to stand trial and to represent himself. in 2008 the supreme court ruled in indiana v. edwards that trial judges could insist on legal representation for defendants who are competent enough to stand trial but who suffer from severe mental illness to the point where they are not competent to conduct trial proceedings by themselves.  mr. bruck and his team have argued in court filings that mr. roof a dropout has no right to represent himself in a capital trial and even less so at the penalty phase.  but in the 41 years since the supreme court recognized a sixth amendment right of for criminal defendants in faretta v. california the court has never specifically narrowed that holding for death penalty trials despite their complexity. some death penalty opponents hope that mr. roofs defiance will prompt the appellate courts to adopt a more rigorous standard for capital defendants. whether or not theyre legally insane theres certainly something mentally wrong with them said peter d. greenspun a lawyer who was ousted by a defendant john a. muhammad for part of a capital murder trial for the 2002 sniper attacks in the washington area. he added to have a person like that make this kind of decision it really calls into question from a philosophical point of view whether that person is in a position to understand their civil liberties.  mr. muhammad who ultimately reinstated mr. greenspun was sentenced to death in 2003 and executed six years later. its something that roof will likely regret mr. greenspun predicted of his choice to represent himself. at some point down the road hes going to say what did i do? and theres no going back. "}, {"tag": 17, "txts": "mumbai india  it was a bold and risky gamble by prime minister narendra modi of india that quickly seemed to backfire. the announcement of a ban on the largest currency bills circulating in india which came into full effect at midnight friday the last day for depositing the old notes at banks set off cash shortages that have hit the countrys most vulnerable people hard and prompted worries about the economy. but despite those concerns as well as doubts about whether the currency ban will reduce corruption as it is designed to do for the moment at least mr. modis bet appears to be paying off in the public arena. even as the poorest indians have struggled many have continued to voice support for the prime ministers initiative to target the vast amounts of untaxed money known as black money flowing through the countrys economy in hopes that it will combat an endemic culture of corruption. mr. modi analysts say has successfully tapped into deep frustration with the corruption that pervades almost every public interface with government. even though the cash ban has produced enormous hardship for me and my family i support what mr. modi is doing for our country said hem raj chechi 39 a taxi driver in new delhi the capital who said business had been down 50 percent since the ban was announced. mr. chechi has not been able to pay his childrens school fees or send money back to his village to support them for nearly two months. but he said we need to fight black money even though it is hurting little people like me.  mr. modi came to power as a disruptive force pledging to overturn the status quo in new delhi bring jobs and fight corruption. indians have repeatedly taken to the streets in recent years to demand an end to corruption widely seen as being most detrimental to the poor and powerless. declaring war on corruption mr. modi announced on nov. 8 that 500 and 1 000 rupee bills worth about $8 and $15 would be banned the next morning. with the currency ban mr. modi has managed to convince many disaffected indians that he is on their side. he has also used his powerful skills as a communicator to persuade people like mr. chechi that the pain stemming from the ban is for the good. that frustration with a political and business elite viewed by many as corrupt is what drove many americans to vote for donald j. trump last year said eswar s. prasad an economics professor at cornell university who is a native of india. trump made the case that only he could effect change by blowing up the system mr. prasad said in an interview. modi in the same way did have a persuasive narrative that small changes at the margins cant tackle problems like corruption. we needed big and painful changes really disruptive ones.  mr. modi appeared on television on new years eve to tell indians he understood their pain and urge them to bear with him in the aim of creating a better nation. he compared his cash ban to the freedom struggle led by mohandas k. gandhi a battle of good versus evil. today mahatma gandhi is not among us but the path that was truth that he showed us is still most appropriate mr. modi said using the honorific for gandhi. as we begin the centenary year of the satyagraha he said referring to gandhis nonviolent resistance movement let us recall the mahatma and resolve to follow his message of truth and goodness.  mr. modi was presiding over one of the major economies in the world when he announced the ban on the rupee notes which made up 86 percent of the money in circulation. its a little bit crazy said geng xiao a professor of finance and public policy at the university of hong kong. when i first read the news i couldnt even figure out if it was true.  the government said that people depositing large amounts of old currency  more than 250 000 rupees or about $3 670 could be asked to prove that they had paid taxes on it. some saw vast amounts of untaxed holdings suddenly rendered worthless. whether mr. modis move will actually reduce corruption is a matter of debate. some economists believe it could pave the way for other measures intended to discourage bribery or restructure the economy. but others say the currency ban is unlikely to result in a significant reduction in corruption even as it has inconvenienced hundreds of millions of people who have struggled to get enough cash to meet their daily needs while the government tries to print enough new notes to replace the banned ones. and a country short of cash has been unable to spend it which is likely to reduce economic growth in the short term economists say. people living on the edge of poverty have been hit hard their diets and livelihoods severely affected. many in india see mr. modi who has also had success persuading parliament to clear the way for a unified tax to make it easier to ship and sell things across state lines as living up to his promise to be a reformer of indias ossified and bureaucratic economy. but in the process he has placed the indian economy and his political future at risk. many economists believe that the indian economy will take at least a hit because of a dire shortage of cash and that the future impact is uncertain. if the effects are prolonged the public support for modi could wane. if this move damages the economy hes in for a rough ride said harsh pant the head of strategic studies at the observer research foundation a new delhi think tank. mr. xiao said that in a system in which the informal sector is substantial the economy could be expected to experience a shock when so much cash is suddenly taken out. you need offsetting stimulus policies to keep the economy growing he said. mr. modi was elected by an overwhelming majority in 2014 defeating the government led by the indian national congress party that had ruled for most of the countrys life on the promise of bringing development and jobs and reducing corruption. in 2014 he had presented himself as the big disrupter mr. pant said. he was the precursor to whats happening in the west.  mr. modi was then the chief minister of the state of gujarat where he had a reputation for tearing away the countrys red tape so businesses could set up shop and expand. but during his first two years after winning national election mr. modi whose party did not control the upper house of parliament struggled to achieve a significant economic overhaul. mr. modi changed the political narrative in 2016 as he successfully fought to get parliament to clear the way for the simplified tax. he cast the opposition as people who dont want change who dont want reform mr. pant said forcing them in august to support the changes. but the challenges facing mr. modi remain considerable. seven weeks after the cash ban began to be put in place the currency shortage remains acute leading to a sharp drop in demand for services and earnings many providers said. nagender tiwari 42 a rickshaw driver in east delhi said he was earning only 60 percent of the 1 000 rupees or about $15 that he used to take home daily before the cash ban. as a result his family which includes two children in 11th grade has reduced its consumption of fish and meat. they have been unable to pay the rent on their home he said. he said he was skeptical about whether the ban was reducing corruption noting that he continued to be stopped by traffic police officers who extorted bribes. so if bribery is not stopped how can black money be stopped? he asked. raj kumar bindal 65 a paper trader in new delhi said sales that plummeted to nearly nothing in the days after the cash ban had returned to about half of what they were before. we cant shift to a cashless mode overnight he said. surjit bhalla a new economic adviser for the observatory group in new york said he believed mr. modi was likely to enact several other major changes in the coming months possibly including a move to a simplified personal income tax. india needs to reduce the incentives for taxpayers to cheat mr. bhalla said. in the united states for every $100 collected in income tax an estimated $20 owed is not paid he added. in india for that same $100 in taxes paid $200 more is owed he said. collectively the cash ban and other anticorruption initiatives have the potential to transform india mr. pant and others said. but doing so depends on mr. modis continuing to command the political narrative of the country as he has so successfully done since instituting the cash ban. so far he has taken control of the narrative and the people are with him mr. pant said. he thinks he can continue to do it but we really dont know. there are so many unknowns. "}, {"tag": 18, "txts": "baghdad  a suicide bomber detonated a pickup truck loaded with explosives on monday in a busy baghdad market killing at least 36 people hours after president franois hollande of france arrived in the iraqi capital. the islamic state later claimed responsibility for the attack. the bomb went off in a produce market that was packed with day laborers a police officer said adding that another 52 people were wounded. during a news conference with mr. hollande haider iraqs prime minister said the suicide bomber had pretended to be a man seeking to hire day laborers. once the workers gathered around he detonated the vehicle. the islamic state also known as isis or isil claimed the attack in a statement circulated on a website that is often used by the group. it was the third such attack in three days in or near baghdad underscoring the lingering threat posed by the extremist group despite a string of setbacks for it elsewhere in the country over the past year including in and around the northern city of mosul. the attack took place in sadr city a vast shiite district in eastern baghdad that has been repeatedly targeted by sunni extremists since the 2003 invasion. militiamen loyal to the shiite cleric moktada were seen evacuating bodies in their trucks before ambulances arrived. bodies were scattered across the bloody pavement alongside fruit vegetables and laborers shovels and axes. a minibus filled with dead passengers was on fire. asaad hashim 28 an owner of a nearby cellphone store described how the laborers had pushed and shoved around the bombers vehicle trying to get hired. then a big boom came sending them up into the air said mr. hashim who suffered shrapnel wounds to his right hand. he blamed the most ineffective security forces in the world for failing to prevent the attack. an angry crowd cursed the government even after a representative of mr. sadr tried to calm them. late last month the iraqi authorities started removing some of the security checkpoints in baghdad in a bid to ease traffic for the capitals six million residents. we have no idea who will kill at any moment and whos supposed to protect us said ali abbas a father of four who was hurled over his vegetable stand by the blast. if the securities forces cant protect us then allow us to do the job.  several smaller bombings elsewhere in the city on monday killed at least 20 civilians and wounded at least 70 according to medics and police officials. all officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to reporters. the united states state department condemned the attacks. separately the american military announced on monday the death of a coalition service member in iraq in a  incident without providing further details. mr. hollande met with mr. abadi and president fuad masum and later traveled to the northern kurdish region to meet with french troops and local officials. he pledged to help displaced iraqis return to mosul where iraqi forces are waging a large offensive against the islamic state. france is part of the coalition formed in 2014 to fight the islamic state after the extremist group seized large areas in iraq and neighboring syria. france has suffered multiple attacks claimed by the extremist group."}, {"tag": 19, "txts": "sydney australia  the annual beach pilgrimage during the height of summer in melbourne australias city is threatened by an unsettling phenomenon: shores where the tides are tainted with excrement. the environment protection authority in the state of victoria said on monday that heavy rains had caused fecal pollution to wash into port phillip from rivers creeks and drains. it advised against swimming at 21 beaches because of poor water quality. its poo in all its luxurious forms that is causing the problem said anthony boxshall the agencys manager of applied sciences noting that the waste was coming from people dogs horses cows birds and other animals. fecal pollution can cause serious health problems including gastroenteritis. mr. boxshall said much of the waste had been washed down the yarra river that runs through melbourne into port phillip affecting the citys bayside beaches the most. the agency which takes regular water samples rates beaches. a good rating means that the water is suitable for swimming. fair means that rainfall has affected the water. poor means people should avoid it. residents said that the pollution had deterred them from indulging in a favorite summer ritual. when the temperature gets above 86 fahrenheit melbournians typically pack the family in the car with food and drink and spend the day at the beach said sam riley who lives in the city. i was going to take my two young boys to the beach myself over the summer but now im concerned about whether the water is clean.  mr. boxshall said any improvement in the beaches water quality was uncertain as long as the rain continued. the agency says it usually takes between 24 and 48 hours for the waters to clear after the rain stops."}]}